Course overview
Study Deakin’s Bachelor of Business, ranked in the top 3 business schools in Victoria, and gain the practical skills to manage people, lead projects and drive innovation across industries. This versatile degree prepares you to succeed in today’s changing business world. Develop entrepreneurial thinking, understand people and organisations, and build your confidence to solve real world challenges. You will learn by doing, with access to industry placements, business consultancy clinics and applied projects.
Whether you are launching a side hustle, leading others or changing careers, this degree equips you with the personal and professional capabilities employers value – including communication, teamwork, and data-informed decision making. Designed to be practical and accessible, the course empowers creative thinkers, future leaders and career builders to make an impact.
Want to graduate career-ready, with the skills and industry experience for the job you want?
Current Deakin students
To access your official course details for the year you started your degree, please visit the handbook
- Award granted
- Bachelor of Business
- Year
2026 course information
- VTAC code
- 1400414093 - Waterfront (Geelong), International full-fee paying place
1400514093 - Burwood (Melbourne), International full-fee paying place - Deakin code
- M325
- CRICOS code?Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students
- 095262C Burwood (Melbourne), Waterfront (Geelong)
- Level
- Undergraduate
- Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) recognition
The award conferred upon completion is recognised in the Australian Qualifications Framework at Level 7
GAIN VITAL INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE AT THE #1 VICTORIAN UNI FOR GRADUATE EMPLOYMENT
Course structure
To complete the Bachelor of Business, you must pass 24 credit points. This includes:
- DAI001 Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0-credit-point compulsory unit) in your first study period
- 10 credit points of core units
- 1 major (8 credit points)
- 6 credit points of open elective units
- a maximum of 10 credit points at level 1
- a minimum of 6 credit points at level 3 (4 must be Business and Law undergraduate units).
Most units are equal to one credit point. As a full-time student you will study four credit points per trimester and usually undertake two trimesters per year.
All students are required to meet the University's academic progress and conduct requirements.
10
Core units
+
8
Units from a major
+
6
Elective units
=
24
Total units
Seven credit points of Foundation units:
Financial Literacy
Money, Growth and the Economy
Managing Information in the Digital Age
Marketing Fundamentals
Management
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Business Logistics
Plus three credit points of Personal Skills units:
Managing Self and Others
Team Dynamics
Global Mindset and Citizenship
To be completed in the first trimester of study:-
Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin
Students must complete six credit points of open elective units (which may include a 4 credit point minor) or a combination of units chosen by the student (provided pre-requisites can be met).
Optional minor sequences:
Refer to the details of each major sequence for availability.
Major sequences that may be chosen include:
All students in the Bachelor of Business have the option to complete a minor sequence chosen from the following:
Intakes by location
The availability of a course varies across locations and intakes. This means that a course offered in Trimester 1 may not be offered in the same location for Trimester 2 or 3. Check each intake for up-to-date information on when and where you can commence your studies.
- Start date: March
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Waterfront (Geelong)
- Online
- Start date: July
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Waterfront (Geelong)
- Online
- Start date: November
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Online
Not all major sequences are available via Campus study at Waterfront. Students undertaking units in major sequences that are not available in Campus mode may enrol in units offered in online mode.
Deakin splits the academic year into three terms, known as trimesters. Most students usually undertake two trimesters each year (March-June, July-November).
More skills, more careers
Earn two degrees, faster, at the #1 Victorian university for graduate employment. With a double degree, you can combine a business degree with arts or criminology. Save time, reduce costs and unlock more career opportunities.
Course duration
You may be able to study available units in the optional third trimester to fast-track your degree, however your course duration may be extended if there are delays in meeting course requirements, such as completing a placement.
Mandatory student checks
Units which contain work integrated learning, a community placement or interaction with the community may require a police check, working with children check or other check. These requirements will be detailed in unit guides upon enrolment.
Workload
You can expect to participate in a range of teaching activities each week. This could include lectures, seminars, online interactions, or professional experiences for Work Integrated Learning (WIL) units. You can refer to the individual unit details in the course structure for more information. You will also need to study and complete assessment tasks in your own time.
Participation requirements
Units in this course may have participation requirements that include compulsory placements, work-based training, community-based learning or collaborative research training arrangements.
Placement can occur at any time, including during standard holiday breaks. Learn about key dates at Deakin.Reasonable adjustments to participation and other course requirements will be made for students with a disability. More information available at Disability support services.
Work experience
This course provides students the opportunity to complete one or more work integrated learning units.
Explore Business and Law WIL opportunities.
International Students:
This course includes Work Integrated Learning (WIL) formally registered as part of the course on the CRICOS register. The total work integrated learning hours will differ depending on the WIL unit you choose. For more information about WIL hours, please check the unit information in the handbook or the unit guide.
For information about how WIL units may impact student visa holder work rights, please visit Home Affairs. See 8105 Work limitation.
Entry requirements
Selection is based on a holistic consideration of your academic merit, work experience, likelihood of success, availability of places, participation requirements, regulatory requirements, and individual circumstances. You will need to meet the minimum academic and English language proficiency requirements to be considered for selection, but this does not guarantee admission.
A combination of qualifications and experience may be deemed equivalent to minimum academic requirements.
If you don't meet the academic entry requirements as outlined in the tabs below, or haven't completed Year 12, or don't hold any relevant qualifications, the STAT (Skills for Tertiary Admissions Test) Multiple Choice (MC) may be an option for you to meet course entry requirements.
Academic requirements
If you're currently studying Year 12, or completed Year 12 in the last two years, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
Year 12 prerequisite subjects
- Units 3 and 4: a study score of at least 25 in English EAL (English as an Additional Language) or at least 20 in English other than EAL
ATAR
- Senior Secondary Certificate of Education with an unadjusted ATAR of at least 50 or equivalent
If you have undertaken higher education studies after secondary schooling, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- successful completion of at least two credit points in an equivalent (AQF Level 7) bachelor degree.
If you have undertaken any Vocational Education and Training (VET) study after secondary school, you will need to meet at least one of following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- completion of a certificate IV or higher in a related discipline
- completion of a diploma or higher in any discipline
- at least 50% completion of a diploma or higher in a related discipline
If you finished Year 12 more than three years ago, or did not finish Year 12, and haven’t undertaken any further study, you may be considered for admission to this degree based on your work, volunteer and/or life experience.
Submit a cover letter outlining your motivation to study, previous education and employment history, and how this course can assist your career aspirations or progression. Think of it as a job application cover letter – it should be relevant and demonstrate your commitment and interest in this course or study area.
Find the entry requirement for your country?International entry score
We are comparing your country’s qualification to the Australian ATAR score. Meeting this score does not guarantee admission into a course. Admission is subject to meeting all criteria, including English language requirements.
To meet the English language proficiency requirements of this course, you will need to demonstrate at least one of the following:
- Victorian Certificate of Education (VCE) English Units 3 and 4: Study score of 25 in English as an Additional Language (EAL) or 20 in any other English
- IELTS overall score of 6.0 (with no band score less than 6.0) or equivalent
- other evidence of English language proficiency (learn more about other ways to satisfy the requirements)
Subject adjustment
A study score of 30 in Maths: Mathematical Methods or Maths: Specialist Mathematics equals 3 aggregate points per study. A study score of 30 in any Business, English other than EAL, any Information Technology or Maths: General Mathematics equals 2 aggregate points per study. Overall maximum of 12 points.
Access and equity
Equity schemes and scholarships, formerly known as Special Entry Access Schemes (SEAS), enable Deakin to consider any disadvantaged circumstances you may have experienced and how these have impacted your studies. Equity schemes help us identify whether you are from an under-represented group when making selection decisions for certain courses. It's important to note that participation in an equity scheme does not exempt you from meeting the standard course entry requirements. Learn more about Deakin's equity schemes and scholarships.
Learn more about Deakin courses and how we compare to other universities when it comes to the quality of our teaching and learning. We're also committed to admissions transparency. Read about our first intake of 2025 students (PDF, 812KB) – their average ATARs, whether they had any previous higher education experience and more.
Not sure if you can get into Deakin? Discover the different entry pathways we offer and study options available to you, no matter your ATAR or education history.
Recognition of prior learning
If you have completed previous studies which you believe may reduce the number of units you have to complete at Deakin, indicate in the appropriate section on your application that you wish to be considered for Recognition of prior learning. You will need to provide a certified copy of your previous course details so your credit can be determined. If you are eligible, your offer letter will then contain information about your Recognition of prior learning.
Your Recognition of prior learning is formally approved prior to your enrolment at Deakin during the Enrolment and Orientation Program. You must bring original documents relating to your previous study so that this approval can occur.
You can also refer to the recognition of prior learning (RPL) system which outlines the credit that may be granted towards a Deakin University degree.
Fees and scholarships
Fee information
Estimated tuition fee - full-fee paying place
$43,600 for 1 yr full-time AUD
Learn more about fees and your options for paying.
The tuition fees you pay are determined by the course you are enrolled in. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is provided as a guide only and represents the typical first-year tuition fees for students enrolled in this course. The cost will vary depending on the units you choose, your study load, the length of your course and any approved Recognition of prior learning you have.
Each unit you enrol in has a credit point value. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is calculated by adding together eight credit points of a typical combination of units for this course. Eight credit points is used as it represents a typical full-time enrolment load for a year.
You can find the credit point value of each unit under the Unit Description by searching for the unit in the handbook.
Learn more about international student fees.
Scholarship options
Deakin scholarships recognise your hard work and achievements. Our support can ease the financial pressure of studying in Australia so you stay focused on your success. Numbers are limited, so apply early for the best chance.
Apply now
Apply directly to Deakin
Applications can be made directly to the University through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's International Student Application Service.
We recommend engaging with a Deakin Authorised Agent who can assist you with the process and submit the application.
Apply through VTAC
If you are an international student completing an Australian Year 12 in Australia or overseas, you must submit an application through the Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre (VTAC). In addition, you may also apply directly to Deakin through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's international student application service.
Need more information on how to apply?
For information on the application process, including required documents and important dates, visit the How to apply webpage.
If you need assistance, please contact us.
Career outcomes
Deakin is the #1 Victorian university for graduate employment. A Bachelor of Business from Deakin can lead to a variety of careers in Australia and overseas, including:
- business entrepreneur
- business analyst
- business development manager
- digital communications manager
- human resource manager
- retail manager
- employee recruitment consultant
- project manager
- purchasing and logistics manager
- sustainability manager.
Professional recognition
Deakin Business School holds the prestigious and globally recognised AACSB and EQUIS accreditations, which attest to quality, academic and professional excellence, ongoing improvement, innovation and graduate employability.
Deakin's graduate learning outcomes describe the knowledge and capabilities graduates can demonstrate at the completion of their course. These outcomes mean that regardless of the Deakin course you undertake, you can rest assured your degree will teach you the skills and professional attributes that employers value. They'll set you up to learn and work effectively in the future.
| Deakin Graduate Learning Outcomes | Course Learning Outcomes |
|---|---|
| Discipline-specific knowledge and capabilities | Evaluate, analyse and apply business theory and practice for real world business problems. |
| Communication | Communicate in a coherent manner using a variety of platforms for a range of purposes and audiences. |
| Digital literacy | Use a range of digitally based technologies to communicate and create solutions to business issues. |
| Critical thinking | Evaluate information, exercise and express sound judgement, ideas and reflection in relation to a range of business issues. |
| Problem solving | Create solutions to a diverse range of authentic business challenges and problems. |
| Self-management | Manage independent work and study, reflect on own performance, take personal responsibility for actions, and plan for future development needs. |
| Teamwork | Interact and collaborate with others from a range of disciplines and backgrounds. |
| Global citizenship | Engage and apply business knowledge in different environments and contexts reflecting social, sustainability, ethical, economic and global perspectives. |
*Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.