Key facts
Duration
2 years full-time
Locations
Course overview
Study the Master of Engineering (Professional) and develop the research, technical and problem-solving skills to design and implement engineering projects as part of a professional team. Throughout this degree, you will acquire advanced engineering skills as well as the forward-thinking and entrepreneurial skills employers are looking for. You will strengthen and extend your understanding of engineering through the pursuit of specialised study, graduating with an in-demand expert skill set.
The course focuses on practical hands-on learning, as well as research and professional practice skill development. You will undertake industry-led or research-based projects to apply your engineering knowledge and extend your understanding through specialised study. You will explore and develop in-depth knowledge in entry to professional practice areas such as civil infrastructure engineering, electrical and renewable energy engineering, environmental engineering, robotics and automation engineering, mechanical engineering or smart manufacturing.
Want to develop advanced engineering skills and progress your career?
Current Deakin students
To access your official course details for the year you started your degree, please visit the handbook
- Award granted
- Master of Engineering (Professional)
- Year
2026 course information
- Deakin code
- S751
- CRICOS code?Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students
- 052600A Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Level
- Higher Degree Coursework (Masters and Doctorates)
- Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) recognition
The award conferred upon completion is recognised in the Australian Qualifications Framework at Level 9
ACHIEVE WORK-LIFE BALANCE AT THE #1 VICTORIAN UNI FOR COURSE SATISFACTION
Course structure
To complete the Master of Engineering (Professional), you must pass 8, 12 or 16 credit points. The number of credit points required may vary, depending on your entry point or how much credit you receive as recognition of prior learning (RPL) based on your professional experience and previous qualifications.
A 16-credit point Master of Engineering (Professional) includes:
- DAI001 Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0-credit-point compulsory unit) in their first study period
- STP710 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit-point compulsory unit)
- SEE700 Safety Induction Program (0-credit-point compulsory unit)
- 5 credit points of core units
- 1 credit point of professional learning units
- 6 credit point specialisation
- 4 credit points of postgraduate open elective units
Most units are equal to 1 credit point.
As a full-time student you will study 4 credit points per trimester and usually undertake 2 trimesters per year.
All students are required to meet the University's academic progress and conduct requirements.
Please refer to the 2025 course structure for the T3, 2025 intake.
6
Core and professional learning units
+
4
Elective units
+
6
Specialisation units
=
16
Total
Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0 credit points)
Career Tools for Employability (0 credit points)
Safety Induction Program (0 credit points)
Project Planning (capstone) ~
Project Implementation and Evaluation (2 credit points) (capstone) ~
Engineering Project Management
Engineering Sustainability
plus
1 credit point of professional learning units:
Professional Practice
Continuing Professional Development
plus
A 6 credit point specialisation
plus
4 credit points of postgraduate open elective units
~It is recommended students undertake SEN710 and SEN720 in consecutive trimesters
Refer to the details of each specialisation for availability.
Intakes by location
The availability of a course varies across locations and intakes. This means that a course offered in Trimester 1 may not be offered in the same location for Trimester 2 or 3. Check each intake for up-to-date information on when and where you can commence your studies.
- Start date: March
- Available at:
- Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Start date: July
- Available at:
- Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Start date: November
- Available at:
- Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
Course duration
You may be able to study available units in the optional third trimester to fast-track your degree, however your course duration may be extended if there are delays in meeting course requirements, such as completing a placement.
Mandatory student checks
Any unit which contains work integrated learning, a community placement or interaction with the community may require a police check, Working with Children Check or other check.
Workload
You can expect to participate in a range of teaching activities each week. This could include lectures, seminars, studios, laboratories and online interaction. You can refer to the individual unit details in the course structure for more information. You will also need to study and complete assessment tasks in your own time.
Participation requirements
Students commencing their course in Trimester 3 will be required to complete units in Trimester 3.
Placement can occur at any time, including during standard holiday breaks. Learn about key dates at Deakin.
Elective units may be selected that include compulsory placements, work-based training, community-based learning or collaborative research training arrangements.
Reasonable adjustments to participation and other course requirements will be made for students with a disability. More information available at Disability support services.
Work experience
Through SEL703 Professional Practice, you'll gain industry experience by completing at least 30 to 60 days of practical work experience in an engineering workplace. This gives you the opportunity to explore potential career paths and build valuable professional networks. Assessment tasks will deepen your understanding of the engineering profession and strengthen your professional practice skills. Learn more about SEBE work integrated learning
Entry requirements
Selection is based on a holistic consideration of your academic merit, work experience, likelihood of success, availability of places, participation requirements, regulatory requirements, and individual circumstances. You will need to meet the minimum academic and English language proficiency requirements or higher to be considered for selection, but this does not guarantee admission.
A combination of qualifications and experience may be deemed equivalent to minimum academic requirements.
To be considered for admission to this degree you will need to meet at least one of the following criteria:
- completion of a four-year undergraduate engineering degree in a related engineering discipline (recognised as equivalent to an Australian undergraduate engineering degree)*;
- Graduate Certificate of Engineering #;
- Professional Engineer Membership (in a related engineering discipline) of Engineers Australia, or an equivalent professional body that is signatory to Washington Accord, including a body that holds a provisional status
* four-year undergraduate Engineering degree recognised by the Washington Accord.
# Graduate Certificate in Engineering completed at AQF 8
To meet the English language proficiency requirements of this course, you will need to demonstrate at least one of the following:
- bachelor degree from a recognised English-speaking country
- IELTS overall score of 6.5 (with no band score less than 6.0) or equivalent
- other evidence of English language proficiency (learn more about other ways to satisfy the requirements.)
Learn more about Deakin courses and how we compare to other universities when it comes to the quality of our teaching and learning.
Not sure if you can get into Deakin postgraduate study? Postgraduate study doesn’t have to be a balancing act; we provide flexible course entry and exit options based on your desired career outcomes and the time you are able to commit to your study.
Recognition of prior learning
If you have completed previous studies which you believe may reduce the number of units you have to complete at Deakin, indicate in the appropriate section on your application that you wish to be considered for Recognition of prior learning. You will need to provide a certified copy of your previous course details so your credit can be determined. If you are eligible, your offer letter will then contain information about your Recognition of prior learning.
Your Recognition of prior learning is formally approved prior to your enrolment at Deakin during the Enrolment and Orientation Program. You must bring original documents relating to your previous study so that this approval can occur.
You can also refer to the recognition of prior learning (RPL) system which outlines the credit that may be granted towards a Deakin University degree.
Fees and scholarships
Fee information
Estimated tuition fee - full-fee paying place
$46,400 for 1 yr full-time AUD
Learn more about fees and your options for paying.
The 'Estimated tuition fee' is provided as a guide only and represents the typical first-year tuition fees for students enrolled in this course. The cost will vary depending on the units you choose, your study load, the length of your course and any approved Recognition of prior learning you have.
One year full-time study load is typically represented by eight credit points of study. Each unit you enrol in has a credit point value. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is calculated by adding together eight credit points of a typical combination of units for your course.
You can find the credit point value of each unit under the Unit Description by searching for the unit in the handbook. Learn more about fees and available payment options.
Scholarship options
Deakin scholarships recognise your hard work and achievements. Our support can ease the financial pressure of studying in Australia so you stay focused on your success. Numbers are limited, so apply early for the best chance.
Postgraduate bursary
We love welcoming Deakin alumni back to continue their journey with us. If you're starting a postgraduate award course, you may be eligible for a 10% discount on your enrolment fees, applied per unit. It's our way of supporting your next step.
Apply now
Apply directly to Deakin
Applications can be made directly to the University through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's International Student Application Service.
We recommend engaging with a Deakin Authorised Agent who can assist you with the process and submit the application.
Need more information on how to apply?
For information on the application process, including required documents and important dates, see the How to apply webpage.
If you need assistance, please contact us.
Pathways
Alternate exits
- Graduate Certificate of Engineering (S550)
Career outcomes
With an international skills shortage in the engineering industry, and roles expected to rise significantly in the next five years,* Deakin graduates are in demand both in Australia and further abroad.
Graduates of this course may find career opportunities associated with their study area in a wide range of industries. Employers look for graduates who are fully equipped with advanced engineering skills and capable of starting work projects immediately. Stand out to employers with the practical skills, professional experience and specialist knowledge to meet this demand.
* Australian Council of Engineering Deans: Shortages of Engineers and Supply Projections, Dec 2021.
Deakin's graduate learning outcomes describe the knowledge and capabilities graduates can demonstrate at the completion of their course. These outcomes mean that regardless of the Deakin course you undertake, you can rest assured your degree will teach you the skills and professional attributes that employers value. They'll set you up to learn and work effectively in the future.
| Deakin Graduate Learning Outcomes | Course Learning Outcomes |
|---|---|
| Discipline-specific knowledge and capabilities | Apply knowledge of engineering principles and techniques, and use research, project design and management skills and approaches to systematically investigate, interpret, analyse and generate solutions for complex problems and issues. Respond to or initiate research concerned with advancing engineering and developing new principles and technologies within the specialist engineering discipline using appropriate methodologies and thereby contribute to continual improvement in the practice and scholarship of engineering. Manage engineering solutions, projects and programs, and ensure reliable functioning of all materials, components, sub-systems and technologies as well as all interactions between the technical system and the context within which it functions to form a complete, sustainable and self-consistent system that optimises social, environmental and economic outcomes over its full lifetime. Advocate engineering ideas and make engineering decisions from conception through to implementation by properly evaluating and integrating technical and non-technical considerations as desirable outcomes of engineering projects and practice. |
| Communication | Prepare high quality engineering documents and present information including approaches, procedures, concepts, solutions, and technical details in oral, written and/or visual forms appropriate to the context, in a professional manner. Use reasoning skills to critically and fairly analyse the viewpoints of stakeholders and specialists, and consult in a professional manner when presenting an engineering viewpoint, arguments, justifications or solutions to engage technical and non-technical audience in discussions, debate and negotiations. |
| Digital literacy | Use a wide range of digital engineering and scientific tools and techniques to analyse, simulate, visualise, synthesise and critically assess information and methodically and systematically differentiate between assertion, personal opinion and evidence for engineering decision-making. Demonstrate the ability to independently and systematically locate and share information, standards and regulations that pertain to the specialist engineering discipline. |
| Critical thinking | Identify, discern, and characterise salient issues, determine and analyse causes and effects, justify and apply appropriate assumptions, predict performance and behaviour, conceptualise engineering approaches and evaluate potential outcomes against appropriate criteria to synthesise solution strategies for complex engineering problems. |
| Problem solving | Use research-based knowledge and research methods to identify, reveal and define complex engineering problems which involve uncertainty, ambiguity, imprecise information, conflicting technical or nontechnical factors and safety and other contextual risks associated with engineering application within an engineering discipline. Apply technical knowledge, problem solving skills, appropriate tools and resources to design components, elements, systems, plant, facilities, processes and services to satisfy user requirements taking in to account broad contextual constraints such as social, cultural, economic, environmental, legal, political and human factors as an integral factor in the process of developing responsible engineering solutions. Identify recent developments, develop alternative concepts, solutions and procedures, appropriately challenge engineering practice from technical and non-technical viewpoints and thereby demonstrate capacity for creating new technological opportunities, approaches and solutions. |
| Self-management | Regularly undertake self-review and take notice of feedback to reflect on achievements, plan professional development needs, learn from the knowledge and standards of a professional and intellectual community and contribute to its maintenance and advancement. Commit to and uphold codes of ethics, established norms, standards, and conduct that characterises accountability and responsibility as a professional engineer, while ensuring safety of other people and protection of the environment. |
| Teamwork | Function effectively as a team member, take various team roles, consistently complete all assigned tasks within agreed deadlines, proactively assist, contribute to ideas, respect opinions and value contribution made by others when working collaboratively in learning activities to realise shared team objectives and outcomes. Apply people and personal skills to resolve any teamwork issues, provide constructive feedback that recognises the value of alternative and diverse viewpoints, and contribute to team cohesiveness, bringing to the fore and discussing shared individual and collective knowledge and creative capacity to develop optimal solutions to complex engineering problems. |
| Global citizenship | Demonstrate an advanced understanding of the global, cultural and social diversity and complex needs of communities and cultures through the assessment of qualitative and quantitative interactions between engineering practices, the environment and the community, the implications of the law, relevant codes, regulations and standards. Actively seek traditional, current and new information to assess trends and emerging practice from local, national and global sources and appraise the diversity, equity and ethical implications for professional practice. |
*Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.