Key facts
Duration
3 years full-time
Locations
ERC Institute, Singapore
Course overview
Cyber security threats are a rapidly growing global challenge for individuals and businesses alike. Secure technology is not only pivotal to business, but to everyday life. As a result, cyber security professionals are in high demand around the world. Deakin’s Bachelor of Cyber Security equips you with the essential skills to investigate and combat cybercrime and cyber terrorism. You will graduate with the expertise to tackle one of the fastest-growing criminal threats to modern-day society.
Gain practical and theoretical knowledge with an emphasis on assessing cyber security in a working environment, as well as the business, ethical and legal implications of risk management. You will cover areas such as computer crime and digital forensics and gain the skills to identify, diagnose and manage the challenges of cyber security. As a graduate, you will be well prepared for an exciting career in one of the most in-demand global industries.
Are you ready to join the fight against cybercrime?
Current Deakin students
To access your official course details for the year you started your degree, please visit the handbook
- Award granted
- Bachelor of Cyber Security
- Year
2026 course information
- Deakin code
- S334E
- Level
- Undergraduate
- Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) recognition
The award conferred upon completion is recognised in the Australian Qualifications Framework at Level 7
#1 Victorian uni for graduate employment
Choose a Deakin degree for vital industry experience on placements, hands-on learning in world-class facilities and guidance from industry-expert academics. We offer lifetime career support and are the #1 Victorian university for graduate employment.
Course structure
To complete the Bachelor of Cyber Security, you must pass 24 credit points. This includes:
- DAI001 Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0-credit-point compulsory unit) in your first study period
- STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit-point compulsory unit)
- 13 credit points of core units
- 3 credit points of capstone units
- 1 minor (4 credit points)
- 4 credit points of course elective units
- a maximum of 10 credit points at level 1
- a minimum of 6 credit points at level 3.
Most units are equal to one credit point.
As a full-time student you will study four credit points per trimester and usually undertake two trimesters per year.
All students are required to meet the University's academic progress and conduct requirements.
13
Core units
+
3
Capstone units
+
8
Minor sequence and course electives
=
24
Total units
Year 1 -Trimester 1
Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0 credit points)
Career Tools for Employability (0 credit points)
Introduction to Programming
Computer Systems
Real World Practices for Cyber Security
Discrete Mathematics
Year 1 - Trimester 2
Computer Networks and Communication
Object-Oriented Development
Plus one (1) minor unit (one credit point)
Year 1 - Trimester 3
Plus one (1) course elective unit * (one credit point)
Year 2 - Trimester 1
Computer Forensics and Investigations #
Cyber Security Analytics
Plus one (1) course elective unit (one credit point)
Plus one (1) minor unit (one credit point)
Year 2 - Trimester 2
Secure Coding
Professional Practice in Information Technology
Plus one (1) course elective unit (one credit point)
Plus one (1) minor unit (one credit point)
Year 2 - Trimester 3
One (1) capstone unit (one (1) credit point):
IT Industry Experience + (capstone)
Year 3 - Trimester 1
Malware Analysis
Network Forensics
Plus one (1) minor unit (one credit point)
Plus one (1) capstone unit (one (1) credit point):
Team Project (A) - Project Management and Practices ^ (capstone)
Year 3 - Trimester 2
Ethical Hacking
Plus one (1) course elective unit (one credit point)
Plus one (1) capstone unit (one (1) credit point):
Team Project (B) - Execution and Delivery ^ (capstone)
* Recommended course elective unit is SIT103 Database Fundamentals.
^ Offered in Trimester 1, Trimester 2, Trimester 3.
+ Students must have completed STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit point compulsory unit) and SIT223 Professional Practice in IT.
# Corequisite of STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit point compulsory unit).
Database Fundamentals
Introduction to Responsive Web Apps
Cloud Computing
Cloud Automation Technologies
Cloud Native Application Development
Software Architecture and Scalability for Internet-Of-Things
Full Stack Development: Secure Backend Services
Full Stack Development: Secure Frontend Applications
Mobile Application Development
Refer to the details of each minor sequence for availability.
Intakes by location
The availability of a course varies across locations and intakes. This means that a course offered in Trimester 1 may not be offered in the same location for Trimester 2 or 3. Check each intake for up-to-date information on when and where you can commence your studies.
- Start date: March
- Available at:
ERC Institute, Singapore
- Start date: July
- Available at:
ERC Institute, Singapore
This course is intended for students studying onshore in Singapore, with located learning support provided by ERC Institute.
This course is not available to domestic and international students studying online or onshore at campuses in Australia.
CHOOSE DEAKIN, THE #1 VICTORIAN UNIVERSITY FOR COURSE SATISFACTION
Course location
This program, delivered by Deakin University and ERC Institute is an exciting partnership between two quality institutions. It provides an opportunity for international students to experience the best of Australian teaching and learning practices while based in Singapore. This course is not available to international students studying online or onshore at campuses in Australia.
Equipment requirements
The learning experiences and assessment activities within this course require that students have access to a range of technologies beyond a desktop computer or laptop. Students will be required to purchase minor equipment, such as small single board computers, microcontrollers and sensors, which will be used within a range of units in this course. This equipment is also usable by the student beyond their studies. Equipment requirements and details of suppliers will be provided on a per-unit basis. The indicative cost of this equipment for this course is AUD$500.
For information regarding hardware and software requirements, please refer to the Bring your own device (BYOD) guidelines via the School of Information Technology website in addition to the individual unit outlines in the Handbook.
Workload
You can expect to participate in a range of teaching activities each week. This could include lectures, seminars, practicals and online interaction. You can refer to the individual unit details in the course structure for more information. You will also need to study and complete assessment tasks in your own time.
Entry requirements
Selection is based on a holistic consideration of your academic merit, work experience, likelihood of success, availability of places, participation requirements, regulatory requirements, and individual circumstances. You will need to meet the minimum academic and English language proficiency requirements to be considered for selection, but this does not guarantee admission.
A combination of qualifications and experience may be deemed equivalent to minimum academic requirements.
If you don't meet the academic entry requirements as outlined in the tabs below, or haven't completed Year 12, or don't hold any relevant qualifications, the STAT (Skills for Tertiary Admissions Test) Multiple Choice (MC) may be an option for you to meet course entry requirements.
Academic requirements
If you’re currently studying Year 12, or completed Year 12 in the last two years, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
Year 12 prerequisite subjects
- Units 3 and 4: a study score of at least 25 in English EAL (English as an Additional Language) or at least 20 in English other than EAL
ATAR
- Senior Secondary Certificate of Education with an unadjusted ATAR of at least 50 or equivalent
If you have undertaken higher education studies after secondary schooling, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- successful completion of at least two bachelor level or above units (AQF Level 7 or equivalent)
If you have undertaken any Vocational Education and Training (VET) study after secondary school, you will need to meet at least one of following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- completion of a certificate IV or higher in a related discipline
- completion of a diploma or higher in any discipline
- at least 50% completion of a diploma or higher in a related discipline
If you finished Year 12 more than three years ago, or did not finish Year 12, and have not undertaken any further study, you may be considered for admission to this degree based on your work, volunteer and/or life experience.
Submit a personal statement outlining your motivation to study, previous education and employment history, and how this course can assist your career aspirations or progression. Think of it as a job application cover letter – it should be relevant and demonstrate your commitment and interest in this course or study area.
Find the entry requirement for your country?International entry score
We are comparing your country’s qualification to the Australian ATAR score. Meeting this score does not guarantee admission into a course. Admission is subject to meeting all criteria, including English language requirements.
To meet the English language proficiency requirements of this course, you will need to demonstrate at least one of the following:
- Victorian Certificate of Education (VCE) English Units 3 and 4: Study score of 25 in English as an Additional Language (EAL) or 20 in any other English
- IELTS overall score of 6.0 (with no band score less than 6.0) or equivalent
- other evidence of English language proficiency (learn more about other ways to satisfy the requirements)
Subject adjustment
A study score of 30 in any English, any Information Technology or any Mathematics equals 2 aggregate points per study. Overall maximum of 10 points.
Access and equity
Equity schemes and scholarships, formerly known as Special Entry Access Schemes (SEAS), enable Deakin to consider any disadvantaged circumstances you may have experienced and how these have impacted your studies. Equity schemes help us identify whether you are from an under-represented group when making selection decisions for certain courses. It's important to note that participation in an equity scheme does not exempt you from meeting the standard course entry requirements. Learn more about Deakin's equity schemes and scholarships.
Learn more about Deakin courses and how we compare to other universities when it comes to the quality of our teaching and learning. We're also committed to admissions transparency. Read about our first intake of 2025 students (PDF, 812KB) – their average ATARs, whether they had any previous higher education experience and more.
Not sure if you can get into Deakin? Discover the different entry pathways we offer and study options available to you, no matter your ATAR or education history.
Recognition of prior learning
If you have completed previous studies which you believe may reduce the number of units you have to complete at Deakin, indicate in the appropriate section on your application that you wish to be considered for Recognition of Prior Learning. You will need to provide a certified copy of your previous course details so your credit can be determined. If you are eligible, your offer letter will then contain information about your Recognition of Prior Learning.
Please note, depending on RPL granted, some units may not be available until 2026. Please seek course advice.
Fees and scholarships
Please contact the ERC Institute for Bachelor of Cyber Security fee information.
Scholarship options
We want to help you excel at Deakin. Our scholarships recognise your dedication and achievements, providing financial support that can ease the cost of living and studying. With less pressure, you’ll have more freedom to focus on what matters most – your education and future success.
Apply now
Apply through ERC Institute
Applications can be made directly to ERC Institute. For more information on the application process and closing dates, please contact ERC Institute directly by emailing enquiry@erci.edu.sg or call +65 6349 2727.
Need more information on how to apply?
For information on the application process, including required documents and important dates, visit the How to apply webpage.
If you need assistance, please contact us.
Career outcomes
Graduate with the skills needed to thrive in a booming industry and help secure our digital future.
As a graduate you may find employment in one of the following roles:
- cyber security operations analyst
- network security analyst
- cyber threat analyst
- incident responder
- operations coordinator
- penetration tester
- cyber security specialist
- cyber security adviser
- vulnerability researcher
- cyber security consultant
- information security auditor
- IT security engineer
- digital forensics analyst
- project manager
- cyber security system developer or programmer
- cyber security system manager.
Deakin's graduate learning outcomes describe the knowledge and capabilities graduates can demonstrate at the completion of their course. These outcomes mean that regardless of the Deakin course you undertake, you can rest assured your degree will teach you the skills and professional attributes that employers value. They'll set you up to learn and work effectively in the future.
| Deakin Graduate Learning Outcomes | Course Learning Outcomes |
|---|---|
| Discipline-specific knowledge and capabilities | Develop a broad, coherent knowledge of the IT discipline including its dynamic environment, with detailed knowledge of project management principles and in depth knowledge in IT Security. Design, develop and implement IT systems and software, and associated policies and procedures for optimal use and apply industry standards and best practice in one or more specialised areas of IT. Acquire in-depth knowledge and skills to develop, implement and manage security solutions for systems, networks, and data according to industry-accepted standards and best practice. |
| Communication | Communicate in an IT context to inform, motivate and effect change utilising a range of verbal, graphical and written methods, recognising the needs of diverse audiences. |
| Digital literacy | Utilise a range of digital technologies and information sources to discover, analyse, evaluate, select, process and disseminate both technical and non-technical information. |
| Critical thinking | Evaluate specialist IT information using critical and analytical thinking, technical skills and well-developed judgement to identify problems, analyse user requirements and propose solutions. |
| Problem solving | Apply theoretical constructs and skills and critical analysis to real-world and ill-defined problems and develop innovative IT solutions. |
| Self-management | Apply knowledge and skills to new situations in professional practice and/or further learning in the field of IT with adaptability, autonomy, responsibility and personal accountability for actions as a practitioner and a learner. Apply understanding of reflective practice and self-critique skills within broad parameters to plan for their own future continuing professional development. |
| Teamwork | Apply the principles of effective teamwork as a member of diverse IT teams to demonstrate responsibility for own learning within broad parameters. |
| Global citizenship | Apply professional and ethical standards and accountability for own learning to the development, design, construction and management of localised IT solutions. |
*Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.