Course overview
Throughout the Bachelor of Environmental Science and Sustainability, you will explore ways to manage the interaction between people and the environment, ready for a career that makes a positive impact on our world. Combining the latest research with extensive application of skills in professional, community, lab and field settings, you will devise and implement innovative solutions to protect natural resources in local and global contexts.
Develop the confidence to address some of the world’s biggest environmental challenges by exploring the role of science and society in achieving global sustainability. Fieldwork is a rewarding part of this course, and you will get plenty of opportunities to apply your skills in beautiful outdoor and community settings. Industry placements provide even more practical experience, along with the opportunity to work alongside experienced environmental scientists and build valuable professional networks.
Want to play a key role in tackling the world’s most pressing environmental problems?
Current Deakin students
To access your official course details for the year you started your degree, please visit the handbook
- Award granted
- Bachelor of Environmental Science and Sustainability
- Year
2026 course information
- VTAC code
- 1400516463 - Burwood (Melbourne), International full-fee paying place
- Deakin code
- S398
- CRICOS code?Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students
- 116267J Burwood (Melbourne)
- Level
- Undergraduate
- Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) recognition
The award conferred upon completion is recognised in the Australian Qualifications Framework at Level 7
#1 Victorian uni for graduate employment
Choose a Deakin degree for vital industry experience on placements, hands-on learning in world-class facilities and guidance from industry-expert academics. We offer lifetime career support and are the #1 Victorian university for graduate employment.
Course structure
To complete the Bachelor of Environmental Science and Sustainability, you must pass 24 credit points. This includes:
- DAI001 Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0-credit-point compulsory unit) in your first study period
- SLE010 Laboratory and Fieldwork Safety Induction Program (0-credit-point compulsory unit)
- STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit-point compulsory unit)
- 18 credit points of core units
- 6 credit points which may comprise of:
- 1 minor (4 credit points) and 2 credit points of open elective units
- 6 credit points of open elective units
- a maximum of 10 credit points at level 1
- a minimum of 14 credit points over levels 2 and 3
- a minimum of 6 credit points at level 3.
Most units are equal to one credit point. As a full-time student you will study four credit points per trimester and usually undertake two trimesters per year.
All students are required to meet the University's academic progress and conduct requirements.
18
Core units
+
6
Minor/Elective units
=
24
Total
Level 1 - Trimester 1
Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0 credit points)
Laboratory and Fieldwork Safety Induction Program (0 credit points)
Career Tools for Employability (0 credit points)
Environmental Techniques and Monitoring
Ecology and the Environment
Foundation for Environmental Science
plus one open elective unit (one credit point) or one minor unit (one credit point)
Level 1 - Trimester 2
Physical Geography
Environmental Sustainability
plus two open elective units (two credit points) or two minor units (two credit points)
Level 2 - Trimester 1
Society and Environment
Hydrology and Water Resources Management
Indigenous Engagement: Natural Resource Management
Ecotourism and Environmental Interpretation
Level 2 - Trimester 2
Environmental Planning and Impact Assessment
Environmental Team Based Research
Landscapes and Their Management
plus one open elective unit (one credit point) or one minor unit (one credit point)
Level 3 - Trimester 1
Professional Practice #
Policy Instruments for Sustainability
Integrating Marine, Coastal and Catchment Management
Geographic Information Systems for Environmental Scientists
Level 3 - Trimester 2
Managing Environmental Projects
Risks to Healthy Environments
plus two open elective units (two credit points) or two minor units (two credit point)
# Must have successfully completed STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0 credit point unit)
Select from the range of open elective units offered across many courses, including, in some cases, the option to choose elective units from a completely different field (subject to meeting unit requirements).
It is important to note that some elective units may include compulsory placement, study tours, work-based training or collaborative research training arrangements.
Refer to the details of each minor sequence for availability.
Intakes by location
The availability of a course varies across locations and intakes. This means that a course offered in Trimester 1 may not be offered in the same location for Trimester 2 or 3. Check each intake for up-to-date information on when and where you can commence your studies.
- Start date: March
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Start date: July
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
Deakin splits the academic year into three terms, known as trimesters. Most students usually undertake two trimesters each year (March-June, July-November).
CHOOSE DEAKIN, THE #1 VICTORIAN UNIVERSITY FOR COURSE SATISFACTION
Course expenses
In addition to student contribution fees, students should be aware that they may be required to meet their own expenses in connection with food and accommodation while on fieldwork.
Other course information
This course was previously titled Bachelor of Environmental Science (Management and Sustainability).
Mandatory student checks
Any unit which contains work integrated learning, a community placement or interaction with the community may require a police check, Working with Children Check or other check.
Workload
You can expect to participate in a range of teaching activities each week. This could include lectures, seminars, practicals and online interaction. You can refer to the individual unit details in the course structure for more information. You will also need to study and complete assessment tasks in your own time.
Participation requirements
Placement can occur at any time, including during standard holiday breaks. Learn about key dates at Deakin.
Elective units may be selected that include compulsory placements, work-based training, community-based learning or collaborative research training arrangements.
Reasonable adjustments to participation and other course requirements will be made for students with a disability. More information available at Disability support services.
Work experience
This course includes a compulsory professional practice unit that requires you to undertake at least 80 hours of work experience in a course-related host organisation. Explore the SEBE WIL program.
Elective units may also provide additional opportunities for Work Integrated Learning experiences.
Entry requirements
Selection is based on a holistic consideration of your academic merit, work experience, likelihood of success, availability of places, participation requirements, regulatory requirements, and individual circumstances. You will need to meet the minimum academic and English language proficiency requirements to be considered for selection, but this does not guarantee admission.
A combination of qualifications and experience may be deemed equivalent to minimum academic requirements.
If you don't meet the academic entry requirements as outlined in the tabs below, or haven't completed Year 12, or don't hold any relevant qualifications, the STAT (Skills for Tertiary Admissions Test) Multiple Choice (MC) may be an option for you to meet course entry requirements.
Academic requirements
If you're currently studying Year 12, or completed Year 12 in the last two years, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
Year 12 prerequisite subjects
- Units 3 and 4: a study score of at least 25 in English EAL (English as an Additional Language) or at least 20 in English other than EAL
ATAR
- Senior Secondary Certificate of Education with an unadjusted ATAR of at least 50 or equivalent
If you have undertaken higher education studies after secondary schooling, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- successful completion of at least two bachelor level or above units (AQF Level 7 or equivalent)
If you have undertaken any Vocational Education and Training (VET) study after secondary school, you will need to meet at least one of following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- completion of a certificate IV or higher in a related discipline
- completion of a diploma or higher in any discipline
- at least 50% completion of a diploma or higher in a related discipline
If you finished Year 12 more than three years ago, or did not finish Year 12, and have not undertaken any further study, you may be considered for admission to this degree based on your work, volunteer and/or life experience.
Submit a personal statement outlining your motivation to study, previous education and employment history, and how this course can assist your career aspirations or progression. Think of it as a job application cover letter – it should be relevant and demonstrate your commitment and interest in this course or study area.
Find the entry requirement for your country?International entry score
We are comparing your country’s qualification to the Australian ATAR score. Meeting this score does not guarantee admission into a course. Admission is subject to meeting all criteria, including English language requirements.
To meet the English language proficiency requirements of this course, you will need to demonstrate at least one of the following:
- Victorian Certificate of Education (VCE) English Units 3 and 4: Study score of 25 in English as an Additional Language (EAL) or 20 in any other English
- IELTS overall score of 6.0 (with no band score less than 6.0) or equivalent
- other evidence of English language proficiency (learn more about other ways to satisfy the requirements)
Subject adjustment
A study score of 30 in Environmental Science, any English, any Mathematics or any Science equals 2 aggregate points per study. Overall maximum of 10 points.
Access and equity
Equity schemes and scholarships, formerly known as Special Entry Access Schemes (SEAS), enable Deakin to consider any disadvantaged circumstances you may have experienced and how these have impacted your studies. Equity schemes help us identify whether you are from an under-represented group when making selection decisions for certain courses. It's important to note that participation in an equity scheme does not exempt you from meeting the standard course entry requirements. Learn more about Deakin's equity schemes and scholarships.
Learn more about Deakin courses and how we compare to other universities when it comes to the quality of our teaching and learning. We're also committed to admissions transparency. Read about our first intake of 2025 students (PDF, 812KB) – their average ATARs, whether they had any previous higher education experience and more.
Not sure if you can get into Deakin? Discover the different entry pathways we offer and study options available to you, no matter your ATAR or education history.
Recognition of prior learning
If you have completed previous studies which you believe may reduce the number of units you have to complete at Deakin, indicate in the appropriate section on your application that you wish to be considered for Recognition of prior learning. You will need to provide a certified copy of your previous course details so your credit can be determined. If you are eligible, your offer letter will then contain information about your Recognition of prior learning.
Your Recognition of prior learning is formally approved prior to your enrolment at Deakin during the Enrolment and Orientation Program. You must bring original documents relating to your previous study so that this approval can occur.
You can also refer to the recognition of prior learning (RPL) system which outlines the credit that may be granted towards a Deakin University degree.
Fees and scholarships
Fee information
Estimated tuition fee - full-fee paying place
$42,400 for 1 yr full-time AUD
Learn more about fees and your options for paying.
The tuition fees you pay are determined by the course you are enrolled in. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is provided as a guide only and represents the typical first-year tuition fees for students enrolled in this course. The cost will vary depending on the units you choose, your study load, the length of your course and any approved Recognition of prior learning you have.
Each unit you enrol in has a credit point value. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is calculated by adding together eight credit points of a typical combination of units for this course. Eight credit points is used as it represents a typical full-time enrolment load for a year.
You can find the credit point value of each unit under the Unit Description by searching for the unit in the handbook.
Learn more about international student fees.
Scholarship options
Deakin scholarships recognise your hard work and achievements. Our support can ease the financial pressure of studying in Australia so you stay focused on your success. Numbers are limited, so apply early for the best chance.
Apply now
Apply directly to Deakin
Applications can be made directly to the University through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's International Student Application Service.
We recommend engaging with a Deakin Authorised Agent who can assist you with the process and submit the application.
Apply through VTAC
If you are an international student completing an Australian Year 12 in Australia or overseas, you must submit an application through the Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre (VTAC). In addition, you may also apply directly to Deakin through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's international student application service.
Need more information on how to apply?
For information on the application process, including required documents and important dates, visit the How to apply webpage.
If you need assistance, please contact us.
Pathways
Articulated courses:
Career outcomes
Your deep understanding of sustainability and extensive fieldwork experience will set you up for career success in a variety of areas, including:
- climate change adaptation and mitigation
- catchment management
- coastal and park management
- conservation
- environmental education
- environmental management
- environmental protection
- land rehabilitation
- planning and policy
- pollution control
- sustainability reporting
- waste management and resource efficiency
- water resource management.
EIANZ membership is open to environmental practitioners at all stages of their career – from those still completing their studies to established experts. The EIANZ (Environment Institute of Australia and New Zealand) is a leading professional body in Australia and New Zealand supporting environmental practitioners and promoting independent and interdisciplinary discussion on environmental issues. For full membership details, visit the EIANZ website.
Professional recognition
The Bachelor of Environmental Science and Sustainability is professionally accredited by the Environment Institute of Australia and New Zealand (EIANZ). As a student of this course, you are encouraged to apply for EIANZ student membership and connect with the professional network that can support your future career as an environmental professional.
Deakin's graduate learning outcomes describe the knowledge and capabilities graduates can demonstrate at the completion of their course. These outcomes mean that regardless of the Deakin course you undertake, you can rest assured your degree will teach you the skills and professional attributes that employers value. They'll set you up to learn and work effectively in the future.
| Deakin Graduate Learning Outcomes | Course Learning Outcomes |
|---|---|
| Discipline-specific knowledge and capabilities | Demonstrate a broad and coherent knowledge of the environmental sciences (natural and social sciences) and a depth of knowledge in environmental management and sustainability. Integrate and apply knowledge and skills, safely, ethically and objectively, within a range of diverse contexts – professional, community, lab and field settings. |
| Communication | Communicate information, conclusions and arguments clearly and coherently to specialist and non-specialist audiences for a range of purposes and in a variety of modes. |
| Digital literacy | Identify and use appropriate digital technologies to locate and evaluate information and communicate with a range of stakeholders in environmental management and sustainability. |
| Critical thinking | Critically analyse and evaluate information from an interdisciplinary range of sources in order to define and provide solutions to real-world environmental problems integrating the principles of the triple-bottom line. |
| Problem solving | Apply traditional and emerging information, technologies and methods to collect, record, collate, investigate and solve real world and ill-defined problems in environmental management and sustainability. |
| Self-management | Demonstrate an ability to work and learn independently and take responsibility for personal actions by: a) undertaking self-directed learning; b) working responsibly, safely and ethically in evolving contexts within the field of environmental management and sustainability. |
| Teamwork | Demonstrate responsibility and accountability when undertaking different roles to work effectively, ethically and safely in diverse team contexts. |
| Global citizenship | Articulate the diverse array of professional, academic and community contexts in which environmental management and sustainability graduates may work. Explain ethical practices and recognise the social, political, economic and environmental contexts relevant to professional conduct within which environmental management and sustainability are practiced globally. |
*Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.