Key facts
Duration
2 years full-time
Locations
Course overview
The sheer volume and complexity of data available to businesses today presents challenges tomorrow's graduates must be ready to solve. Modern organisations are placing increasing emphasis on the use of data to inform both day-to-day operations and long-term strategic decisions. You will explore the various origins of data and the methods to manage, organise and manipulate data within regulatory, ethical and security constraints.
The Master of Data Science (Professional) equips you with specialised skills in data science and offers you the chance to engage in industry-based learning or a research project supervised by our internationally recognised staff. With a growing demand for data specialists in every sector, you will be equipped with the skills to optimise performance and add a competitive advantage.
Want to take your career to the next level with specialised study?
Current Deakin students
To access your official course details for the year you started your degree, please visit the handbook
- Award granted
- Master of Data Science (Professional)
- Year
2026 course information
- Deakin code
- S770
- CRICOS code?Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students
- 107030E Burwood (Melbourne)
- Level
- Higher Degree Coursework (Masters and Doctorates)
- Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) recognition
The award conferred upon completion is recognised in the Australian Qualifications Framework at Level 9
Flexible course delivery
Deakin’s blend of online and on-campus learning means you can balance work, study and personal development. Achieve work-life balance – study with Deakin's dedicated support and flexible learning options.
Course structure
To complete the Master of Data Science (Professional), you must pass 8, 12 or 16 credit points. The number of credit points required may vary, depending on your entry point or how much credit you receive as recognition of prior learning (RPL) based on your professional experience and previous qualifications.
A 16-credit point Master of Data Science (Professional) includes:
- DAI001 Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0-credit-point compulsory unit) in their first study period
- Part A: Fundamental Data Science studies:
- 4 credit points of core units
- Part B: Mastery Data Science studies:
- 4 credit points of core units
- Part C: Specialisation or course electives:
- 4 credit points which may comprise of:
- 4 credit point specialisation or
- 4 credit points of course elective units, level 7 SIT or MIS-coded
- 4 credit points which may comprise of:
- Part D: Professional studies:
- 4 credit points of professional studies units (excluding SIT771, SIT772, SIT773 and SIT774)
Most units are equal to one credit point. As a full-time student you will study four credit points per trimester and usually undertake two trimesters per year.
All students are required to meet the University's academic progress and conduct requirements.
8
Core units
+
4
Specialisation/course elective units
+
4
Professional units
=
16
Total
A 4 credit point specialisation or 4 level 7 SIT or MIS-coded elective units (excluding SIT771, SIT772, SIT773 and SIT774).
Refer to the details of each specialisation for availability.
Team Project
Professional Practice in Information Technology
Team Project (A) - Project Management and Practices (capstone)
Team Project (B) - Execution and Delivery (capstone)
1 level 7 SIT or MIS-coded elective (1 credit point)~
OR
Professional Practice
Career Tools for Employability (0 credit points)
Professional Practice in Information Technology
Team Project (A) - Project Management and Practices (capstone)
Professional Practice (2 credit points) * (capstone)
OR
Research Project^
Professional Practice in Information Technology
Team Project (A) - Project Management and Practices (capstone)
Plus 1 unit (2 credit points) from the following:
Research Techniques and Applications (2 credit points) + (research training capstone)
Minor Thesis (2 credit points) + (research training capstone)
*Students undertaking this unit must have successfully completed STP710 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit point unit)
~ excluding SIT771, SIT772, SIT773 and SIT774
+ Entry is subject to specific unit entry requirements.
^Students interested in pursuing a Higher Degree by Research (HDR), including a Masters by Research or PhD are encouraged to undertake the Professional Studies – Research Project pathway. High achieving students with a particular interest in research should also consider undertaking either the Research Training in Information Technology specialisation or additional research units as electives (e.g. SIT724, SIT746 and/or SIT747). Students are encouraged to contact Student Central and speak to a course adviser if they are interested in pursuing this option.
Intakes by location
The availability of a course varies across locations and intakes. This means that a course offered in Trimester 1 may not be offered in the same location for Trimester 2 or 3. Check each intake for up-to-date information on when and where you can commence your studies.
- Start date: March
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Online
- Start date: July
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Online
- Start date: November
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
Equipment requirements
The learning experiences and assessment activities within this course may require students to have access to a range of technologies beyond a laptop or desktop computer. For information regarding hardware and software requirements, please refer to the Bring your own device (BYOD) guidelines via the School of Information Technology website in addition to the individual unit outlines in the Handbook.
Course duration
You may be able to study available units in the optional third trimester to fast-track your degree, however your course duration may be extended if there are delays in meeting course requirements, such as completing a placement.
Mandatory student checks
Any unit which contains work integrated learning, a community placement or interaction with the community may require a police check, Working with Children Check or other check.
Workload
You can expect to participate in a range of teaching activities each week. This could include classes, seminars, practicals and online interaction. You can refer to the individual unit details in the course structure for more information. You will also need to study and complete assessment tasks in your own time.
Participation requirements
Elective units may be selected that include compulsory placements, work-based training, community-based learning or collaborative research training arrangements.
Reasonable adjustments to participation and other course requirements will be made for students with a disability. More information available at Disability support services.
Work experience
You may have an opportunity to undertake a placement as part of your course. For more information, please visit deakin.edu.au/sebe/wil.
Entry requirements
Selection is based on a holistic consideration of your academic merit, work experience, likelihood of success, availability of places, participation requirements, regulatory requirements, and individual circumstances. You will need to meet the minimum academic and English language proficiency requirements or higher to be considered for selection, but this does not guarantee admission.
A combination of qualifications and experience may be deemed equivalent to minimum academic requirements.
To be considered for admission to this degree you will need to meet at least one of the following criteria:
- completion of a bachelor degree or higher in a related discipline
- completion of a bachelor degree or higher in any discipline and at least two years' relevant work experience (or part-time equivalent)
Examples of related disciplines include, but not limited to the broad field of Information Technology.
To meet the English language proficiency requirements of this course, you will need to demonstrate at least one of the following:
- bachelor degree from a recognised English-speaking country
- IELTS overall score of 6.5 (with no band score less than 6.0) or equivalent
- other evidence of English language proficiency (learn more about other ways to satisfy the requirements)
Learn more about Deakin courses and how we compare to other universities when it comes to the quality of our teaching and learning.
Not sure if you can get into Deakin postgraduate study? Postgraduate study doesn't have to be a balancing act; we provide flexible course entry and exit options based on your desired career outcomes and the time you're able to commit to your study.
Recognition of prior learning
If you have completed previous studies which you believe may reduce the number of units you have to complete at Deakin, indicate in the appropriate section on your application that you wish to be considered for Recognition of prior learning. You will need to provide a certified copy of your previous course details so your credit can be determined. If you are eligible, your offer letter will then contain information about your Recognition of prior learning.
Your Recognition of prior learning is formally approved prior to your enrolment at Deakin during the Enrolment and Orientation Program. You must bring original documents relating to your previous study so that this approval can occur.
You can also refer to the recognition of prior learning (RPL) system which outlines the credit that may be granted towards a Deakin University degree.
Fees and scholarships
Fee information
Estimated tuition fee - full-fee paying place
$44,200 for 1 yr full-time AUD
Learn more about fees and your options for paying.
The 'Estimated tuition fee' is provided as a guide only and represents the typical first-year tuition fees for students enrolled in this course. The cost will vary depending on the units you choose, your study load, the length of your course and any approved Recognition of prior learning you have.
One year full-time study load is typically represented by eight credit points of study. Each unit you enrol in has a credit point value. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is calculated by adding together eight credit points of a typical combination of units for your course.
You can find the credit point value of each unit under the Unit Description by searching for the unit in the handbook. Learn more about fees and available payment options.
Scholarship options
Deakin scholarships recognise your hard work and achievements. Our support can ease the financial pressure of studying in Australia so you stay focused on your success. Numbers are limited, so apply early for the best chance.
Postgraduate bursary
We love welcoming Deakin alumni back to continue their journey with us. If you're starting a postgraduate award course, you may be eligible for a 10% discount on your enrolment fees, applied per unit. It's our way of supporting your next step.
Apply now
Apply directly to Deakin
Applications can be made directly to the University through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's International Student Application Service.
We recommend engaging with a Deakin Authorised Agent who can assist you with the process and submit the application.
Need more information on how to apply?
For information on the application process, including required documents and important dates, see the How to apply webpage.
If you need assistance, please contact us.
Research information
Students interested in pursuing a Higher Degree by Research (HDR), including a Masters by Research or PhD are encouraged to undertake the Professional Studies – Research Project pathway. High achieving students with a particular interest in research should also consider undertaking either the Research Training in Information Technology specialisation or additional research units as electives (e.g. SIT724, SIT746 and/or SIT747). Students are encouraged to contact Student Central and speak to a course adviser if they are interested in pursuing this option.
Pathways
Pathways for students to enter the Master of Data Science (Professional) are as follows:
- Graduate Certificate of Information Technology (S578) followed by a 16-credit-point Master of Data Science (Professional)
- Graduate Certificate of Information Technology (S578) and Graduate Certificate of Data Analytics (S576) followed by a 12-credit-point Master of Data Science (Professional)
- Graduate Diploma of Data Science (S677) followed by an 8-credit-point Master of Data Science (Professional)
Pathway options will depend on your professional experience and previous qualifications.
Alternate exits
Career outcomes
In fiercely competitive markets where businesses are constantly striving to increase profit, reduce costs and provide exceptional customer value, the need for skilled data professionals is growing at a rapid pace. Graduates of this course may find a career as a data analyst, data scientist, analytics programmer, analytics manager, analytics consultant, business analyst, management adviser, management analyst, business adviser and strategist, marketing manager, market research analyst or marketing specialist.
Professional recognition
The Master of Data Science (Professional) is professionally accredited with the Australian Computer Society (ACS). This course is recognised internationally for entry to professional practice by other accrediting bodies through the Seoul Accord.
Deakin's graduate learning outcomes describe the knowledge and capabilities graduates can demonstrate at the completion of their course. These outcomes mean that regardless of the Deakin course you undertake, you can rest assured your degree will teach you the skills and professional attributes that employers value. They'll set you up to learn and work effectively in the future.
| Deakin Graduate Learning Outcomes | Course Learning Outcomes |
|---|---|
| Discipline-specific knowledge and capabilities | Develop a broad, coherent knowledge of the analytics discipline, including: the origin and characteristics of data; the methods and approaches to dealing with data appropriately and securely; and how the use of analytics outcomes can be used to improve business, organisations or society. Apply advanced knowledge and skills to decompose complex processes (from real world situations) to develop data analytics solutions for use in modern organisations across multiple industry sectors. Assess the role data analytics plays in the context of modern organisations and society in order to add value. Have a broad appreciation of advanced topics within the IT domain through engagement with research or specialist studies. |
| Communication | Communicate in professional and other context to inform, explain and drive sustainable innovation through data science and to motivate and effect change by drawing upon advances in technology, future trends and industry standards, and by utilising a range of verbal, graphical and written methods, recognising the needs of diverse audiences including specialist and non-specialist clients, industry personnel and other stakeholders. |
| Digital literacy | Identify, evaluate, select and use advanced digital technologies, platforms, frameworks, and tools from the field of data science to generate, manage, process and share digital resources and justify digital tools selection to influence others. |
| Critical thinking | Questions assumptions and seeks to uncover inconsistencies and ambiguities in information and judgements, critically evaluates their sources and rationales, to inform and justify decision making in the field of data science. |
| Problem solving | Demonstrate an advanced and integrated understanding of data science and apply expert, specialised cognitive, technical, and creative skills from data science to understand requirements and design, implement, operate, and evaluate solutions to complex real-world and ill-defined computing problems. |
| Self-management | Apply reflective practice and work independently to apply knowledge and skills in a professional manner to complex situations and ongoing learning in the field of data science with adaptability, autonomy, responsibility, and personal and professional accountability for actions as a practitioner and a learner. |
| Teamwork | Work independently and collaboratively within multidisciplinary environments to achieve team goals, contributing specialist knowledge and skills from data science to advance the teams objectives, employing effective teamwork practices and principles to cultivate creative thinking, interpersonal adeptness, leadership skills, and handle challenging discussions, while excelling in diverse professional, social, and cultural scenarios. |
| Global citizenship | Engage in professional and ethical behaviour in the field of data science, with appreciation for the global context, and openly and respectfully collaborate with diverse communities and cultures. |
*Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.