Course overview
Create the smart software and systems of the future by studying Deakin’s Bachelor of Software Engineering (Honours). This course arms you with the skills needed to build disruptive technologies that create change, making you a sought-after expert ready to solve tomorrow’s business problems through creative computing solutions. Explore a broad range of exciting study areas, including robotics, algorithms, programming and software architecture, and apply your skills in world-class facilities.
Gain practical experience and learn how to work successfully in a team with project-based learning activities. Contribute to real-world projects alongside professional engineers during industry placements. You will develop specialised skills in robotics, cyber-physical systems and the Internet-of-Things (IoT), all while getting hands-on with the latest software engineering tools that allow you to push beyond the limitations of traditional technologies.
Want to be at the forefront of robotics, computing and smart technologies?
Current Deakin students
To access your official course details for the year you started your degree, please visit the handbook
- Award granted
- Bachelor of Software Engineering (Honours)
- Year
2026 course information
- VTAC code
- 1400510343 - Burwood (Melbourne), International full-fee paying place
- Deakin code
- S464
- CRICOS code?Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students
- 092212D Burwood (Melbourne)
- Level
- Undergraduate
- Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) recognition
The award conferred upon completion is recognised in the Australian Qualifications Framework at Level 8
Jeetasha’s experience in software engineering
Jeetasha shares her experience studying software engineering at Deakin as an international student. From coding to complex problem-solving, hands-on learning and emerging technologies play a central role as she builds skills and confidence.
(01:09)
Course structure
To complete the Bachelor of Software Engineering (Honours), you must pass 32 credit points. This includes:
- DAI001 Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0-credit-point compulsory unit) in your first study period
- STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit-point compulsory unit)
- 22 credit points of core units
- 2 credit points of software engineering capstone units
- 4 credit points of software engineering research training capstone units
- 4 credit points which may comprise of:
- 1 minor (4 credit points)
- 4 credit points of open elective units
- a maximum of 10 credit points at level 1
- a minimum of 10 credit points at level 3 or above.
Most units are equal to one credit point. As a full-time student you will study four credit points per trimester and usually undertake two trimesters per year.
All students are required to meet the University's academic progress and conduct requirements.
22
Core units
+
6
Capstone units
+
4
Minor/Elective units
=
32
Total
Year 1 - Trimester 1
Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0 credit points)
Career Tools for Employability (0 credit point unit)
Introduction to Programming
Computer Systems
Engineering in Society
Discrete Mathematics
Year 1 - Trimester 2
Data Capture Technologies
Introduction to Software Engineering
Object-Oriented Development
Database Fundamentals
Year 2 - Trimester 1
Embedded Systems Development
Data Structures and Algorithms
Sustainable Design
Full Stack Development: Secure Backend Services
Year 2 - Trimester 2
Computer Networks and Communication
Full Stack Development: Secure Frontend Applications
Professional Practice in Information Technology #
Concurrent and Distributed Programming
Year 3 - Trimester 1
Software Quality and Testing
Robotics Application Development
Plus 1 open elective or minor unit (1 credit point)
Software Engineering capstone:
Team Project (A) - Project Management and Practices ^ (capstone)
Year 3 - Trimester 2
Software Architecture and Scalability for Internet-Of-Things
Advanced Embedded Systems
Software Engineering capstone:
Team Project (B) - Execution and Delivery ^ (capstone)
Plus 1 open elective or minor unit (1 credit point)
Year 4 - Trimester 1
Developing Secure Internet of Things Applications
Research Techniques and Applications (2 credit point unit) (research training capstone)^
Plus 1 open elective or minor unit (1 credit point)
Year 4 - Trimester 2
Professional Practice ^@
Plus 1 open elective or minor unit (1 credit point, level 2 or higher)
Plus 2 credit points from the following research training capstone options:
Research Project (2 credit points)(research training capstone)^
OR
Research Project (Advanced) (2 credit points)(research training capstone)*^
^ offered in Trimester 1, Trimester 2, Trimester 3
* Entry to SIT746 is subject to specific unit entry requirements.
@ Please note that all students must complete their SEL703 placement.
# Corequisite of STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit point compulsory unit).
It is important to ensure your course plan meets the course rules detailed above. Students should contact Student Central for assistance with course planning, choosing the right units and understanding course rules.
Select from a range of elective units offered across many courses. In some cases you may even be able to choose elective units from a completely different discipline area (subject to meeting unit requirements).
Refer to the details of each minor sequence for availability.
- Artificial Intelligence
- Cloud Technologies
- Computational Mathematics
- Cyber Security
- Data Science
- Game Design
- Information Technologies Research
- Virtual and Augmented Reality
~ students in S464 are required to undertake specific units within this minor sequence.
Intakes by location
The availability of a course varies across locations and intakes. This means that a course offered in Trimester 1 may not be offered in the same location for Trimester 2 or 3. Check each intake for up-to-date information on when and where you can commence your studies.
- Start date: March
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Online
- Start date: July
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Online
Deakin splits the academic year into three terms, known as trimesters. Most students usually undertake two trimesters each year (March-June, July-November).
CHOOSE DEAKIN, THE #1 VICTORIAN UNIVERSITY FOR COURSE SATISFACTION
Equipment requirements
The learning experiences and assessment activities within this course require that students have access to a range of technologies beyond a desktop computer or laptop. Access to high cost specialist equipment, such as robots, is provided. Students will be required to purchase minor equipment, such as small single board computers, microcontrollers and sensors, which will be used within a range of units in this course. This equipment is also usable by the student beyond their studies. Equipment requirements and details of suppliers will be provided on a per-unit basis. The indicative cost of this equipment for this course is AUD$500.
For information regarding hardware and software requirements, please refer to the 'Bring your own device (BYOD) guidelines via the School of Information Technology website in addition to the individual unit outlines in the Handbook.
Course duration
You may be able to study available units in the optional third trimester to fast-track your degree, however your course duration may be extended if there are delays in meeting course requirements, such as completing a placement.
Mandatory student checks
Any unit which contains work integrated learning, a community placement or interaction with the community may require a police check, Working with Children Check or other check.
Workload
You can expect to participate in a range of teaching activities each week. This could include lectures, seminars, practicals and online interaction. You can refer to the individual unit details in the course structure for more information. You will also need to study and complete assessment tasks in your own time.
Participation requirements
In order to satisfy course accreditation requirements, as specified and administered by Engineers Australia, all online enrolled students are required to participate in campus-based learning activities equivalent to a minimum duration of one full academic week for every trimester of effective full-time study in order to ensure that graduates possess and have demonstrated the minimum necessary knowledge and skill base, engineering application abilities, and professional skills, values and attitudes at successful completion of the course to be sufficiently prepared to enter professional engineering practice.
Students enrolled in online learning are required to attend campus-based activities during the corresponding Intensive Week in a trimester. Attendance at campus-based activities is linked to assessment requirements within the engineering programmes, failure to attend will result in not meeting the hurdle requirement of the respective assessment. Thus, a fail grade shall be awarded for the respective affected unit(s) for that particular trimester.
International students: Please note that due to Australian Government regulations, student visas to enter Australia cannot be issued to students who enrol in Deakin online. To participate in the mandatory campus-based activities during the trimester intensive week, it is suggested that you apply for a tourist visa to enter Australia. Please be advised that Deakin University cannot guarantee that you will be granted a tourist visa by the Australian Government.
International students studying online may not be granted a visitor visa to complete mandatory components of the course at a campus.
Placement can occur at any time, including during standard holiday breaks. Learn about key dates at Deakin.
Elective units may be selected that include compulsory placements, work-based training, community-based learning or collaborative research training arrangements.
Reasonable adjustments to participation and other course requirements will be made for students with a disability. More information available at Disability support services.
Work experience
Through SEL703 Professional Practice, you will gain industry experience by completing a work placement in an engineering workplace. This gives you the opportunity to explore potential career paths and build valuable professional networks. Assessment tasks will deepen your understanding of the engineering profession and strengthen your professional practice skills.
#1 Victorian uni for graduate employment
Choose a Deakin degree for vital industry experience on placements, hands-on learning in world-class facilities and guidance from industry-expert academics. We offer lifetime career support and are the #1 Victorian university for graduate employment.
Entry requirements
Selection is based on a holistic consideration of your academic merit, work experience, likelihood of success, availability of places, participation requirements, regulatory requirements, and individual circumstances. You will need to meet the minimum academic and English language proficiency requirements to be considered for selection, but this does not guarantee admission.
A combination of qualifications and experience may be deemed equivalent to minimum academic requirements.
If you don't meet the academic entry requirements as outlined in the tabs below, or haven't completed Year 12, or don't hold any relevant qualifications, the STAT (Skills for Tertiary Admissions Test) Multiple Choice (MC) may be an option for you to meet course entry requirements.
Academic requirements
If you're currently studying Year 12, or completed Year 12 in the last two years, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
Year 12 prerequisite subjects
- Units 3 and 4: a study score of at least 25 in English EAL (English as an Additional Language) or at least 20 in English other than EAL
- Units 3 and 4: a study score of at least 20 in one of Maths: Mathematical Methods or Maths: Specialist Mathematics or Maths: General Mathematics
ATAR
- Senior Secondary Certificate of Education with an unadjusted ATAR of at least 50 or equivalent
If you have undertaken higher education studies after secondary schooling, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- successful completion of at least two bachelor level or above units (AQF Level 7 or equivalent) with a minimum WAM of 60 or equivalent
- evidence of mathematical ability (equivalent to that of the Year 12 maths prerequisite)
If you have undertaken any Vocational Education and Training (VET) study after secondary school, you will need to meet at least one of following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- completion of a certificate IV or higher in a related discipline
- completion of a diploma or higher in any discipline
- at least 50% completion of a diploma or higher in a related discipline
You will also require evidence of mathematical ability (equivalent to that of the Year 12 maths prerequisite).
If you finished Year 12 more than three years ago, or did not finish Year 12, and haven’t undertaken any further study, you may be considered for admission to this degree based on your work, volunteer and/or life experience.
Submit a personal statement outlining your motivation to study, previous education and employment history, and how this course can assist your career aspirations or progression. Think of it as a job application cover letter – it should be relevant and demonstrate your commitment and interest in this course or study area.
You will also require evidence of mathematical ability (equivalent to that of the Year 12 maths prerequisite).
Find the entry requirement for your country?International entry score
We are comparing your country’s qualification to the Australian ATAR score. Meeting this score does not guarantee admission into a course. Admission is subject to meeting all criteria, including English language requirements.
To meet the English language proficiency requirements of this course, you will need to demonstrate at least one of the following:
- Victorian Certificate of Education (VCE) English Units 3 and 4: Study score of 25 in English as an Additional Language (EAL) or 20 in any other English
- IELTS overall score of 6.0 (with no band score less than 6.0) or equivalent
- other evidence of English language proficiency (learn more about other ways to satisfy the requirements)
Subject adjustment
A study score of 30 in any English, Maths: Mathematical Methods, Maths: Specialist Mathematics, Physics or Systems Engineering equals 2 aggregate points per study. Overall maximum of 10 points.
Access and equity
Equity schemes and scholarships, formerly known as Special Entry Access Schemes (SEAS), enable Deakin to consider any disadvantaged circumstances you may have experienced and how these have impacted your studies. Equity schemes help us identify whether you are from an under-represented group when making selection decisions for certain courses. It's important to note that participation in an equity scheme does not exempt you from meeting the standard course entry requirements. Learn more about Deakin's equity schemes and scholarships.
Learn more about Deakin courses and how we compare to other universities when it comes to the quality of our teaching and learning. We're also committed to admissions transparency. Read about our first intake of 2025 students (PDF, 812KB) – their average ATARs, whether they had any previous higher education experience and more.
Not sure if you can get into Deakin? Discover the different entry pathways we offer and study options available to you, no matter your ATAR or education history.
Recognition of prior learning
If you have completed previous studies which you believe may reduce the number of units you have to complete at Deakin, indicate in the appropriate section on your application that you wish to be considered for Recognition of prior learning. You will need to provide a certified copy of your previous course details so your credit can be determined. If you are eligible, your offer letter will then contain information about your Recognition of prior learning.
Your Recognition of prior learning is formally approved prior to your enrolment at Deakin during the Enrolment and Orientation Program. You must bring original documents relating to your previous study so that this approval can occur.
You can also refer to the recognition of prior learning (RPL) system which outlines the credit that may be granted towards a Deakin University degree.
Fees and scholarships
Fee information
Estimated tuition fee - full-fee paying place
$42,000 for 1 yr full-time AUD
Learn more about fees and your options for paying.
The tuition fees you pay are determined by the course you are enrolled in. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is provided as a guide only and represents the typical first-year tuition fees for students enrolled in this course. The cost will vary depending on the units you choose, your study load, the length of your course and any approved Recognition of prior learning you have.
Each unit you enrol in has a credit point value. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is calculated by adding together eight credit points of a typical combination of units for this course. Eight credit points is used as it represents a typical full-time enrolment load for a year.
You can find the credit point value of each unit under the Unit Description by searching for the unit in the handbook.
Learn more about international student fees.
Scholarship options
Deakin scholarships recognise your hard work and achievements. Our support can ease the financial pressure of studying in Australia so you stay focused on your success. Numbers are limited, so apply early for the best chance.
Apply now
Apply directly to Deakin
Applications can be made directly to the University through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's International Student Application Service.
We recommend engaging with a Deakin Authorised Agent who can assist you with the process and submit the application.
Apply through VTAC
If you are an international student completing an Australian Year 12 in Australia or overseas, you must submit an application through the Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre (VTAC). In addition, you may also apply directly to Deakin through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's international student application service.
Need more information on how to apply?
For information on the application process, including required documents and important dates, visit the How to apply webpage.
If you need assistance, please contact us.
Career outcomes
Graduates will be equipped to find employment in diverse areas of software engineering. You’ll be able to develop and implement state-of-the-art smart devices, systems and applications for industries including transport, health, agriculture and manufacturing.
You may pursue a career as a software engineer, software developer, programmer, embedded systems developer, robotics programmer or systems architect. Software engineers also work in specialist research roles; with experience, your career can move into project management and business development, in roles such as CIO and CTO, from start-ups to multinational corporations.
Professional recognition
The Bachelor of Software Engineering (Honours) is accredited by Engineers Australia (EA) and the Australian Computer Society (ACS). This course is recognised internationally for entry to professional practice by other accrediting bodies through the Seoul Accord.
Deakin's graduate learning outcomes describe the knowledge and capabilities graduates can demonstrate at the completion of their course. These outcomes mean that regardless of the Deakin course you undertake, you can rest assured your degree will teach you the skills and professional attributes that employers value. They'll set you up to learn and work effectively in the future.
| Deakin Graduate Learning Outcomes | Course Learning Outcomes |
|---|---|
| Discipline-specific knowledge and capabilities | Develop a broad, coherent knowledge of the software engineering discipline, with detailed knowledge of the application of software engineering principles and approaches. Use knowledge, skills, tools and methodologies for professional software engineering practice. Design software components, systems and computing processes to meet application requirements, within realistic economic, environmental, social, political, legal and ethical constraints. |
| Communication | Communicate in a professional context incorporating research-driven perspective to inform, explain and drive sustainable innovation through software engineering, utilising a range of verbal, graphical and written methods, recognising the needs of diverse audiences. |
| Digital literacy | Identify, select and use digital technologies, platforms, frameworks, and tools from the field of software engineering to generate, manage, process and share digital resources for research and practice. |
| Critical thinking | Critically analyse information provided to inform decision making and evaluation of plans and solutions associated with research and practice in software engineering. |
| Problem solving | Apply cognitive, technical, and creative skills from software engineering to understand requirements and design, implement, operate, and evaluate innovative solutions to real-world and ill-defined computing problems. |
| Self-management | Work independently to apply knowledge and skills to new situations in research and professional practice and/or further learning in the field of software engineering with adaptability, autonomy, responsibility, and personal accountability for actions as a practitioner and a learner. |
| Teamwork | Work independently and collaboratively to achieve team goals, contributing knowledge and skills from software engineering practice and research to advance the teams objectives, employing effective teamwork practices and principles, and comprehending distinct workplace roles and their functions. |
| Global citizenship | Apply professional and ethical standards and accountability in research and practice in the field of software engineering, and engage openly and respectfully with diverse communities and cultures. |
*Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.