Key facts
Duration
1 year full-time
Locations
Course overview
If you value independent thinking and are looking for a pathway to research degrees and enhanced career opportunities, the Bachelor of Arts (Honours) could be ideal for you. In this optional year of specialised study, you will conduct in-depth research on a topic you are passionate about and develop advanced research skills and disciplinary knowledge through coursework.
Our experienced academics will supervise you as you work on your thesis and engage with the wider discourse around your chosen topic. You will improve your critical and constructive thinking and gain practical research skills you can use in a range of private and public sectors to positively impact issues you care about.
Want to conduct your own research to make a real impact in the social sciences, humanities or literary studies?
Current Deakin students
To access your official course details for the year you started your degree, please visit the handbook
- Award granted
- Bachelor of Arts (Honours)
- Year
2026 course information
- Deakin code
- A400
- CRICOS code?Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students
- 001816G Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Level
- Undergraduate
- Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) recognition
The award conferred upon completion is recognised in the Australian Qualifications Framework at Level 8
#1 Victorian uni for graduate employment
Choose a Deakin degree for vital industry experience on placements, hands-on learning in world-class facilities and guidance from industry-expert academics. We offer lifetime career support and are the #1 Victorian university for graduate employment.
Course structure
To complete the Bachelor of Arts (Honours), you must pass 8 credit points. This includes:
- DAI001 Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0-credit-point compulsory unit) in your first study period
- 8 credit points from a discipline sequence from the list below.
Most units are equal to one credit point. As a full-time student you will study four credit points per trimester and usually undertake two trimesters per year.
All students are required to meet the University's academic progress and conduct requirements.
Notes: There are no attendance requirements for online enrolled students, although regular consultation with an appointed thesis supervisor is required.
- Half of the course requirements is met through coursework, which may include directed reading and/or enrolment in course work units, and
- Half is satisfied through a research project (thesis or dissertation) of 14000-16000 words.
Compulsory 0-credit point module
To be completed in the first trimester of study:
Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin
Units
Honours Research Design
Research Communication
Honours Theory and Debates in the Discipline
Honours, Reading in the Discipline
Honours Research Project A
Honours Research Project B
Honours Research Project C
Honours Research Project D
Refer to the details of each discipline for availability.
The School of Communication and Creative Arts (SCCA) offers the Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in the following disciplines:
- Children's Literature
- Gender and Sexuality Studies
- Literary Studies
- Professional and Creative Writing.
Notes:
(i) The School of Communication and Creative Arts (SCCA) offers the Bachelor of Arts (Honours) at Burwood (Melbourne) to all students, to Waurn Ponds (Geelong) students and online students subject to agreement with the Honours Co-ordinator.
(ii) For disciplines in the creative arts (Animation and Motion Capture, Dance, Drama, Film and Television, Media and Communication, Photography, Visual Arts and Visual Communication Design) please refer to A450 Bachelor of Creative Arts (Honours)
(iii) For disciplines in communication (Journalism, Public Relations, Media and Communication) please refer to A451 Bachelor of Communication (Honours)
The School of Humanities and Social Sciences (SHSS) offers the Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in the following disciplines:
- Anthropology
- Criminology
- History
- Sociology
- International Relations
- Politics
- Philosophy
- Language.
Notes:
(i) Anthropology, Criminology, History, International Relations, Languages, Politics, Philosophy and Sociology are all offered at Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong) and online.
(ii) Honours students who commenced prior to 2015 to contact the Faculty Honours Student Adviser in the Student Services Office for enrolment advice.
(iii) Students enrolling in Trimester 2 will commence part-time but may convert to full-time study in the following year. Course completion may be 18 months to 2 years.
(iv) Students who have completed a sequence in Politics or Philosophy within the A336 Bachelor of Politics, Philosophy and Economics (and associated degrees) are also able to apply for honours in those disciplines.
Intakes by location
The availability of a course varies across locations and intakes. This means that a course offered in Trimester 1 may not be offered in the same location for Trimester 2 or 3. Check each intake for up-to-date information on when and where you can commence your studies.
- Start date: March
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Online
- Start date: July
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Online
Deakin splits the academic year into three terms, known as trimesters. Most students usually undertake two trimesters each year (March-June, July-November).
CHOOSE DEAKIN, THE #1 VICTORIAN UNIVERSITY FOR COURSE SATISFACTION
Course duration
You may be able to study available units in the optional third trimester to fast-track your degree, however your course duration may be extended if there are delays in meeting course requirements, such as completing a placement.
Contact information
Children’s Literature, Gender and Sexuality Studies, Literary Studies and Professional and Creative Writing
Course Director (SCCA)
A/Prof Alyson Miller
Tel: (03) 5247 9315
Email: alyson.miller@deakin.edu.au
Course Director (SHSS)
A/Prof Kiran Pienaar
Email: kiran.pienaar@deakin.edu.au
Tel: (03) 5227 2004
For SHSS discipline students requiring further information, please contact:
Anthropology
Dr David Giles
Tel: (03) 9246 8382
Email: d.giles@deakin.edu.au
Criminology
Dr Sally Kennedy
Tel: (03) 9246 8946
Email: s.kennedy@deakin.edu.au
History
Prof David Lowe
Tel: (03) 5227 2691
Email: david.lowe@deakin.edu.au
International Relations, Middle East Studies, Politics and Policy (PRIMES)
Dr Bianca Baggiarini
Tel: 03 9246 8180
Email: b.baggiarini@deakin.edu.au
Languages
Dr Ramon Lopez Castellano
Tel: (03) 9244 5115
Email: ramon.lopezcastellano@deakin.edu.au
Philosophy
Dr Cathy Legg
Tel: 03 9246 8856
Email: c.legg@deakin.edu.au
Sociology
Dr Rose Butler
Email: rose.butler@deakin.edu.au
Participation requirements
Reasonable adjustments to participation and other course requirements will be made for students with a disability. More information available at Disability support services.
Entry requirements
Selection is based on a holistic consideration of your academic merit, work experience, likelihood of success, availability of places, participation requirements, regulatory requirements, and individual circumstances. You will need to meet the minimum academic and English language proficiency requirements or higher to be considered for selection, but this does not guarantee admission.
A combination of qualifications and experience may be deemed equivalent to minimum academic requirements.
To be considered for admission to this degree you will need to meet the following criteria:
- completion of a bachelor degree or higher or major in a related discipline with a Weighted Average Mark (WAM) (or equivalent average grade indicator) of at least 65 in third year units, or where relevant, final year units
To meet the English language proficiency requirements of this course, you will need to demonstrate at least one of the following:
- Victorian Certificate of Education (VCE) English Units 3 and 4: Study score of 25 in English as an Additional Language (EAL) or 20 in any other English
- IELTS overall score of 6.0 (with no band score less than 6.0) or equivalent
- other evidence of English language proficiency (learn more about other ways to satisfy the requirements)
Applicants are also advised to read further information and complete requirements outlined in the Information and Application form. These requirements may include work experience, reasons for undertaking the course, previous academic information and your research proposal.
Learn more about Deakin courses and how we compare to other universities when it comes to the quality of our teaching and learning.
Online studies
Deakin offers many courses which can be studied by distance education overseas.
However, international students living in Australia on a student visa, in each compulsory trimester (that is, Trimesters 1 and 2), must enrol in at least one unit that is offered as a Campus located unit and can, in addition enrol in units offered online. International students may undertake a maximum of up to one third (or equivalent) of their study as online study. Please note enrolment in one face to face unit in compulsory study periods is only allowed if the student is completing their final unit of study and will not exceed maximum one third (or equivalent) online requirement.
Fees and scholarships
Fee information
Estimated tuition fee - full-fee paying place
$37,400 for 1 yr full-time AUD
Learn more about fees and your options for paying.
The tuition fees you pay are determined by the course you are enrolled in. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is provided as a guide only and represents the typical first-year tuition fees for students enrolled in this course. The cost will vary depending on the units you choose, your study load, the length of your course and any approved Recognition of prior learning you have.
Each unit you enrol in has a credit point value. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is calculated by adding together eight credit points of a typical combination of units for this course. Eight credit points is used as it represents a typical full-time enrolment load for a year.
You can find the credit point value of each unit under the Unit Description by searching for the unit in the handbook.
Learn more about international student fees.
Scholarship options
Deakin scholarships recognise your hard work and achievements. Our support can ease the financial pressure of studying in Australia so you stay focused on your success. Numbers are limited, so apply early for the best chance.
Apply now
Apply directly to Deakin
Applications can be made directly to the University through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's International Student Application Service.
We recommend engaging with a Deakin Authorised Agent who can assist you with the process and submit the application.
Need more information on how to apply?
For information on the application process, including required documents and important dates, visit the How to apply webpage.
If you need assistance, please contact us.
Pathways
Further study options
Graduates may wish to apply for further study in Higher Degrees by Research.
Career outcomes
As a Bachelor of Arts (Honours) graduate, depending on your discipline, your skills will be in demand in a range of careers, including:
- business
- community services
- education
- government civil service
- international relations
- media
- museums and other historical or cultural institutions
- not-for-profit community or policy work
- private sector consulting
- public office
- public policy
- police
- research
- social work
- wiring, editing and publishing
For more information go to DeakinTALENT.
Deakin's graduate learning outcomes describe the knowledge and capabilities graduates can demonstrate at the completion of their course. These outcomes mean that regardless of the Deakin course you undertake, you can rest assured your degree will teach you the skills and professional attributes that employers value. They'll set you up to learn and work effectively in the future.
| Deakin Graduate Learning Outcomes | Course Learning Outcomes |
|---|---|
| Discipline-specific knowledge and capabilities | Synthesise complex theoretical knowledge with appropriate discipline-specific research methodologies to conceptualise, plan, and execute an original piece of research or work demonstrating high level, independent critical analysis and evaluative judgment. |
| Communication | Articulate complex research questions, designs, and outcomes through a variety of media, adapting communication strategies to effectively convey information to diverse audiences in professional and academic contexts. |
| Digital literacy | Apply evaluative judgement to a range of digital technologies in the production of ethically informed research and analysis, employing intellectual independence to the resolution of complex tasks. |
| Critical thinking | Critically evaluate and synthesise theoretical knowledge and methodologies and apply these to complex applications, including the generation of new knowledge and works. |
| Problem solving | Analyse and evaluate complex problems and solutions using appropriate theoretical frameworks and implement strategies to address these. |
| Self-management | Apply autonomy, responsibility and adaptability in learning and meeting deadlines, upholding integrity and accountability for personal actions. |
| Teamwork | Collaborate effectively, responsibly and ethically with a diverse range of people to set and meet relevant and agreed on outcomes. |
| Global citizenship | Apply self-reflexivity and critical analysis to personal cultural values, privileges, and biases while engaging with diverse perspectives, particularly Indigenous knowledges, in the development of research and creative works. |
Approved at Faculty Board November 2024
*Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.