Key facts
Duration
2 years full-time
Locations
Course overview
The Master of Information Technology (Professional) equips you with specialised IT skills and offers the opportunity to undertake industry-based learning or a research project under the supervision of Deakin’s internationally recognised research staff. You will develop expert knowledge of technical IT concepts while deepening your skills in your chosen area of specialisation.
With a strong industry focus, the course empowers you to apply your knowledge and skills in professional practice and create innovative IT solutions to real-world challenges. You will develop teamwork and leadership capabilities through close mentorship on industry projects and exposure to cutting-edge IT research, ensuring you graduate with the job-ready skills employers are looking for.
Want to gain in-demand IT skills and advance your career across any industry?
Current Deakin students
To access your official course details for the year you started your degree, please visit the handbook
- Award granted
- Master of Information Technology (Professional)
- Year
2026 course information
- Deakin code
- S779
- CRICOS code?Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students
- 051581G Burwood (Melbourne)
- Level
- Higher Degree Coursework (Masters and Doctorates)
- Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) recognition
The award conferred upon completion is recognised in the Australian Qualifications Framework at Level 9
Flexible course delivery
Deakin’s blend of online and on-campus learning means you can balance work, study and personal development. Achieve work-life balance – study with Deakin's dedicated support and flexible learning options.
Course structure
To complete the Master of Information Technology (Professional), you must pass 8, 12 or 16 credit points. The number of credit points required may vary, depending on your entry point or how much credit you receive as recognition of prior learning (RPL) based on your professional experience and previous qualifications.
A 16-credit point Master of Information Technology (Professional) includes:
- DAI001 Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0-credit-point compulsory unit) in their first study period
- Part A: Fundamental Information Technology studies:
- 4 credit points of core units
- Part B: Mastery Information Technology studies:
- 3 credit points of core units
- 1 credit points of course elective units, level 7 SIT or MIS-coded
- Part C: Specialist Information Technology studies:
- 4 credit point specialisation
- Part D: Professional Studies:
- 2 credit points of professional studies units
- 2 credit points of course elective units, level 7 SIT or MIS-coded
Most units are equal to one credit point. As a full-time student you will study four credit points per trimester and usually undertake two trimesters per year.
All students are required to meet the University's academic progress and conduct requirements.
Please refer to the 2025 course structure for the T3, 2025 intake.
8
Fundamental & Mastery Information Technology units
+
4
Specialist Information Technology units
+
4
Professional units
=
16
Total
4 core units from a chosen specialisation (4 credit points)
-
Refer to the details of each specialisation for availability.
Team Project
Team Project (B) - Execution and Delivery (capstone)
IT Industry Experience * (capstone)
Plus 2 level 7 SIT or MIS-coded elective units (2 credit points) (excluding SIT771, SIT772, SIT773 and SIT774)
OR
Professional Practice
Career Tools for Employability (0 credit points)
Professional Practice (2 credit points) * (capstone)
Plus 2 level 7 SIT or MIS-coded elective units (2 credit points) (excluding SIT771, SIT772, SIT773 and SIT774)
OR
Research Project^
1 unit (2 credit points) from the following:
Research Techniques and Applications (2 credit points) + (research training capstone)
Minor Thesis (2 credit points) + (research training capstone)
Plus 2 level 7 SIT or MIS-coded elective units (2 credit points) (excluding SIT771, SIT772, SIT773 and SIT774)
*Students undertaking this unit must have successfully completed STP710 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit point unit)
+ Entry is subject to specific unit entry requirements.
^Students interested in pursuing a Higher Degree by Research, including a Masters by Research or PhD are encouraged to undertake the Professional Studies – Research Project pathway and consider using their additional research units (e.g. SIT724, SIT746 and/or SIT747). Students are encouraged to contact Student Central and speak to a course adviser if they are interested in pursuing this option.
Intakes by location
The availability of a course varies across locations and intakes. This means that a course offered in Trimester 1 may not be offered in the same location for Trimester 2 or 3. Check each intake for up-to-date information on when and where you can commence your studies.
- Start date: March
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Online
- Start date: July
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Online
- Start date: November
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Online
Equipment requirements
The learning experiences and assessment activities within this course may require students to have access to a range of technologies beyond a laptop or desktop computer. For information regarding hardware and software requirements, please refer to the Bring your own device (BYOD) guidelines Bring your own device (BYOD) guidelines via the School of Information Technology website in addition to the individual unit outlines in the Handbook,
Course duration
You may be able to study available units in the optional third trimester to fast-track your degree, however your course duration may be extended if there are delays in meeting course requirements, such as completing a placement.
Mandatory student checks
Any unit which contains work integrated learning, a community placement or interaction with the community may require a police check, Working with Children Check or other check.
Workload
You can expect to participate in a range of teaching activities each week. This could include classes, seminars, practicals and online interaction. You can refer to the individual unit details in the course structure for more information. You will also need to study and complete assessment tasks in your own time.
Participation requirements
Elective units may be selected that include compulsory placements, work-based training, community-based learning or collaborative research training arrangements.
Reasonable adjustments to participation and other course requirements will be made for students with a disability. More information available at Disability support services.
Students commencing in Trimester 3 will be required to complete units in Trimester 3.
Work experience
You may have an opportunity to undertake a placement as part of your course. For more information, please visit deakin.edu.au/sebe/wil.
Entry requirements
Selection is based on a holistic consideration of your academic merit, work experience, likelihood of success, availability of places, participation requirements, regulatory requirements, and individual circumstances. You will need to meet the minimum academic and English language proficiency requirements or higher to be considered for selection, but this does not guarantee admission.
A combination of qualifications and experience may be deemed equivalent to minimum academic requirements.
To be considered for admission to this degree you will need to meet at least one of the following criteria:
- completion of a bachelor degree or higher in a related discipline
- completion of a bachelor degree or higher in any discipline and at least two years' relevant work experience (or part-time equivalent).
Examples of related discipline and relevant work experience include but not limited to the broad field of Information Technology which may be considered to comprise artificial intelligence, cyber security, information technology management, data science, information technology, computing, computer science and software engineering.
To meet the English language proficiency requirements of this course, you will need to demonstrate at least one of the following:
- bachelor degree from a recognised English-speaking country
- IELTS overall score of 6.5 (with no band score less than 6.0) or equivalent
- other evidence of English language proficiency (learn more about other ways to satisfy the requirements)
Learn more about Deakin courses and how we compare to other universities when it comes to the quality of our teaching and learning.
Not sure if you can get into Deakin postgraduate study? Postgraduate study doesn't have to be a balancing act; we provide flexible course entry and exit options based on your desired career outcomes and the time you're able to commit to your study.
Recognition of prior learning
If you have completed previous studies which you believe may reduce the number of units you have to complete at Deakin, indicate in the appropriate section on your application that you wish to be considered for Recognition of prior learning. You will need to provide a certified copy of your previous course details so your credit can be determined. If you are eligible, your offer letter will then contain information about your Recognition of prior learning.
Your Recognition of prior learning is formally approved prior to your enrolment at Deakin during the Enrolment and Orientation Program. You must bring original documents relating to your previous study so that this approval can occur.
You can also refer to the recognition of prior learning (RPL) system which outlines the credit that may be granted towards a Deakin University degree.
Fees and scholarships
Fee information
Estimated tuition fee - full-fee paying place
$44,200 for 1 yr full-time AUD
Learn more about fees and your options for paying.
The 'Estimated tuition fee' is provided as a guide only and represents the typical first-year tuition fees for students enrolled in this course. The cost will vary depending on the units you choose, your study load, the length of your course and any approved Recognition of prior learning you have.
One year full-time study load is typically represented by eight credit points of study. Each unit you enrol in has a credit point value. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is calculated by adding together eight credit points of a typical combination of units for your course.
You can find the credit point value of each unit under the Unit Description by searching for the unit in the handbook. Learn more about fees and available payment options.
Scholarship options
Deakin scholarships recognise your hard work and achievements. Our support can ease the financial pressure of studying in Australia so you stay focused on your success. Numbers are limited, so apply early for the best chance.
Postgraduate bursary
We love welcoming Deakin alumni back to continue their journey with us. If you're starting a postgraduate award course, you may be eligible for a 10% discount on your enrolment fees, applied per unit. It's our way of supporting your next step.
Apply now
Apply directly to Deakin
Applications can be made directly to the University through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's International Student Application Service.
We recommend engaging with a Deakin Authorised Agent who can assist you with the process and submit the application.
Need more information on how to apply?
For information on the application process, including required documents and important dates, see the How to apply webpage.
If you need assistance, please contact us.
Pathways
Pathways for students to enter the Master of Information Technology (Professional) are as follows:
- Graduate Certificate of Information Technology (S578) followed by a 16-credit-point Master of Information Technology (Professional)
Alternate exits
Career outcomes
Graduates of this course may find employment as a business analyst, network administrator, database administrator, security analyst, solutions architect, software developer, software engineer, DevOps practitioner, technology consultant, data analyst, augmented/virtual reality developer, or security systems manager.
Professional recognition
The Master of Information Technology (Professional) is professionally accredited by the Australian Computer Society (ACS). This course is recognised internationally for entry to professional practice by other accrediting bodies through the Seoul Accord.
Deakin's graduate learning outcomes describe the knowledge and capabilities graduates can demonstrate at the completion of their course. These outcomes mean that regardless of the Deakin course you undertake, you can rest assured your degree will teach you the skills and professional attributes that employers value. They'll set you up to learn and work effectively in the future.
| Deakin Graduate Learning Outcomes | Course Learning Outcomes |
|---|---|
| Discipline-specific knowledge and capabilities | Develop a broad, coherent knowledge of the IT discipline, including its dynamic environment, with expert knowledge of the technological aspects of IT, and in-depth knowledge in the chosen area of specialisation. Design, develop and implement advanced IT systems and software, and associated policies and procedures for optimal use and apply industry standards and best practice in one or more specialised areas of IT. Assess the role of IT in the context of modern organisations and society in order to add value. |
| Communication | Communicate in professional and other contexts to inform, explain and drive sustainable innovation through information technology and to motivate and effect change by drawing upon advances in technology, future trends and industry standards, and by utilising a range of verbal, graphical and written methods, recognising the needs of diverse audiences including specialist and non-specialist clients, industry personnel and other stakeholders. |
| Digital literacy | Identify, evaluate, select and use advanced digital technologies, platforms, frameworks, and tools from the field of information technology to generate, manage, process and share digital resources and justify digital tools selection to influence others. |
| Critical thinking | Questions assumptions and seeks to uncover inconsistencies and ambiguities in information and judgements, critically evaluates their sources and rationales, to inform and justify decision making in the field of information technology. |
| Problem solving | Demonstrate an advanced and integrated understanding of information technology and apply expert, specialised cognitive, technical, and creative skills from information technology to understand requirements and design, implement, operate, and evaluate solutions to complex real-world and ill-defined computing problems. |
| Self-management | Apply reflective practice and work independently to apply knowledge and skills in a professional manner to complex situations and ongoing learning in the field of information technology with adaptability, autonomy, responsibility, and personal and professional accountability for actions as a practitioner and a learner. |
| Teamwork | Work independently and collaboratively within multidisciplinary environments to achieve team goals, contributing specialist knowledge and skills from information technology to advance the teams objectives, employing effective teamwork practices and principles to cultivate creative thinking, interpersonal adeptness, leadership skills, and handle challenging discussions, while excelling in diverse professional, social, and cultural scenarios. |
| Global citizenship | Engage in professional and ethical behaviour in the field of information technology, with appreciation for the global context, and openly and respectfully collaborate with diverse communities and cultures. |
*Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.