Course overview
The Bachelor of Environmental Science (Wildlife and Conservation Biology) gets you out of the classroom and into nature. Learn how to capture and handle native animals, measure the health of ecosystems, survey wildlife populations and develop conservation strategies. You will even have the opportunity to participate in our thriving Global Experience Program. Deakin is a leader in the environmental science education sector, with this specialised course being the first of its kind in Victoria.
This course focuses on developing real-world solutions to global wildlife and conservation issues. You will gain theoretical and practical experience in wildlife ecology, biodiversity, fire ecology, GIS and more. Develop practical skills through regular fieldwork and a yearly remote field studies camp. Plus, industry placements and work integrated learning opportunities will help prepare you for your future career.
Do you want to create a better world for future generations?
Current Deakin students
To access your official course details for the year you started your degree, please visit the handbook
- Award granted
- Bachelor of Environmental Science (Wildlife and Conservation Biology)
- Year
2026 course information
- VTAC code
- 1400514173 - Burwood (Melbourne), International full-fee paying place
- Deakin code
- S393
- CRICOS code?Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students
- 055286D Burwood (Melbourne)
- Level
- Undergraduate
- Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) recognition
The award conferred upon completion is recognised in the Australian Qualifications Framework at Level 7
#1 Victorian uni for graduate employment
Choose a Deakin degree for vital industry experience on placements, hands-on learning in world-class facilities and guidance from industry-expert academics. We offer lifetime career support and are the #1 Victorian university for graduate employment.
Course structure
To complete the Bachelor of Environmental Science (Wildlife and Conservation Biology), you must pass 24 credit points. This includes:
- DAI001 Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0-credit-point compulsory unit) in your first study period
- SLE010 Laboratory and Fieldwork Safety Induction Program (0-credit-point compulsory unit)
- STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit-point compulsory unit)
- 18 credit points of core units
- 6 credit points which may comprise of:
- 1 minor (4 credit points) and 2 credit points of open elective units
- 6 credit points of open elective units
- a maximum of 10 credit points at level 1
- a minimum of 14 credit points over levels 2 and 3
- a minimum of 6 credit points at level 3.
Most units are equal to one credit point. As a full-time student you will study four credit points per trimester and usually undertake two trimesters per year.
All students are required to meet the University's academic progress and conduct requirements.
18
Core units
+
6
Minor/Elective units
=
24
Total units
Level 1 - Trimester 1
Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0 credit points)
Laboratory and Fieldwork Safety Induction Program (0 credit points)
Career Tools for Employability (0 credit points)
Ecology and the Environment
Biodiversity: a Global Perspective
Foundation for Environmental Science
plus one open elective unit or one minor unit (one credit point)
Level 1 - Trimester 2
Physical Geography
Introduction to Parks and Wildlife Conservation
Environmental Sustainability
plus one open elective unit or one minor unit (one credit point)
Level 2 - Trimester 1
Society and Environment
Wildlife Ecology
Environmental Botany
Indigenous Engagement: Natural Resource Management
Level 2 - Trimester 2
Environmental Team Based Research
Landscapes and Their Management
plus two open elective units or two minor unit (two credit points)
Level 3 - Trimester 1
Professional Practice #
Wildlife Conservation and Management
Geographic Information Systems for Environmental Scientists
plus one open elective unit or one minor unit (one credit point)
Level 3 - Trimester 2
Australian Vegetation and Its Management
Zoological and Wildlife Field Studies
Bushfire Management
plus one open elective unit or one minor unit (one credit point)
# Must have successfully completed STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0 credit point unit)
Select from a range of open elective units offered across many courses. You may even be able to choose elective units from a completely different discipline area (subject to meeting unit requirements).
It is important to note that some elective units may include compulsory placement, study tours, work-based training or collaborative research training arrangements.
Refer to the details of each minor sequence for availability.
Intakes by location
The availability of a course varies across locations and intakes. This means that a course offered in Trimester 1 may not be offered in the same location for Trimester 2 or 3. Check each intake for up-to-date information on when and where you can commence your studies.
- Start date: March
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Start date: July
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
Deakin splits the academic year into three terms, known as trimesters. Most students usually undertake two trimesters each year (March-June, July-November).
CHOOSE DEAKIN, THE #1 VICTORIAN UNIVERSITY FOR COURSE SATISFACTION
Course expenses
In addition to student contribution fees, students may be required to meet their own expenses in connection with food and accommodation while on fieldwork.
Course duration
You may be able to study available units in the optional third trimester to fast-track your degree, however your course duration may be extended if there are delays in meeting course requirements, such as completing a placement.
Mandatory student checks
Any unit which contains work integrated learning, a community placement or interaction with the community may require a police check, Working with Children Check or other check.
Workload
You can expect to participate in a range of teaching activities each week. This could include lectures, seminars, practicals and online interaction. You can refer to the individual unit details in the course structure for more information. You will also need to study and complete assessment tasks in your own time.
Participation requirements
Placement can occur at any time, including during standard holiday breaks. Learn about key dates at Deakin.
Elective units may be selected that include compulsory placements, work-based training, community-based learning or collaborative research training arrangements.
Students selecting SLE301 Professional Practice as part of their global engagement minor, please note that the placement component of this unit must be completed in an international setting.
Reasonable adjustments to participation and other course requirements will be made for students with a disability. More information available at Disability support services.
Students commencing in Trimester 3 will be required to complete units in Trimester 3.
Work experience
This course includes a compulsory professional practice unit that requires you to undertake at least 80 hours of work experience in a course-related host organisation. Explore the SEBE WIL program.
Elective units may also provide additional opportunities for Work Integrated Learning experiences.
Entry requirements
Selection is based on a holistic consideration of your academic merit, work experience, likelihood of success, availability of places, participation requirements, regulatory requirements, and individual circumstances. You will need to meet the minimum academic and English language proficiency requirements to be considered for selection, but this does not guarantee admission.
A combination of qualifications and experience may be deemed equivalent to minimum academic requirements.
If you don't meet the academic entry requirements as outlined in the tabs below, or haven't completed Year 12, or don't hold any relevant qualifications, the STAT (Skills for Tertiary Admissions Test) Multiple Choice (MC) may be an option for you to meet course entry requirements.
Academic requirements
If you’re currently studying Year 12, or completed Year 12 in the last two years, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
Year 12 prerequisite subjects
- Units 3 and 4: a study score of at least 25 in English EAL (English as an Additional Language) or at least 20 in English other than EAL
ATAR
- Senior Secondary Certificate of Education with an unadjusted ATAR of at least 50 or equivalent
If you have undertaken higher education studies after secondary schooling, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- successful completion of at least two bachelor level or above units (AQF Level 7 or equivalent)
If you have undertaken any Vocational Education and Training (VET) study after secondary school, you will need to meet at least one of following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- completion of a certificate IV or higher in a related discipline
- completion of a diploma or higher in any discipline
- at least 50% completion of a diploma or higher in a related discipline
If you finished Year 12 more than three years ago, or did not finish Year 12, and have not undertaken any further study, you may be considered for admission to this degree based on your work, volunteer and/or life experience.
Submit a personal statement outlining your motivation to study, previous education and employment history, and how this course can assist your career aspirations or progression. Think of it as a job application cover letter – it should be relevant and demonstrate your commitment and interest in this course or study area.
Find the entry requirement for your country?International entry score
We are comparing your country’s qualification to the Australian ATAR score. Meeting this score does not guarantee admission into a course. Admission is subject to meeting all criteria, including English language requirements.
To meet the English language proficiency requirements of this course, you will need to demonstrate at least one of the following:
- Victorian Certificate of Education (VCE) English Units 3 and 4: Study score of 25 in English as an Additional Language (EAL) or 20 in any other English
- IELTS overall score of 6.0 (with no band score less than 6.0) or equivalent
- other evidence of English language proficiency (learn more about other ways to satisfy the requirements)
Subject adjustment
A study score of 35 in any English, any Mathematics or any Science equals 3 aggregate points per study. A study score of 30 in any English, any Mathematics or any Science equals 2 aggregate points per study. Overall maximum of 10 points.
Access and equity
Equity schemes and scholarships, formerly known as Special Entry Access Schemes (SEAS), enable Deakin to consider any disadvantaged circumstances you may have experienced and how these have impacted your studies. Equity schemes help us identify whether you are from an under-represented group when making selection decisions for certain courses. It's important to note that participation in an equity scheme does not exempt you from meeting the standard course entry requirements. Learn more about Deakin's equity schemes and scholarships.
Learn more about Deakin courses and how we compare to other universities when it comes to the quality of our teaching and learning. We're also committed to admissions transparency. Read about our first intake of 2025 students (PDF, 812KB) – their average ATARs, whether they had any previous higher education experience and more.
Not sure if you can get into Deakin? Discover the different entry pathways we offer and study options available to you, no matter your ATAR or education history.
Recognition of prior learning
If you have completed previous studies which you believe may reduce the number of units you have to complete at Deakin, indicate in the appropriate section on your application that you wish to be considered for Recognition of prior learning. You will need to provide a certified copy of your previous course details so your credit can be determined. If you are eligible, your offer letter will then contain information about your Recognition of prior learning.
Your Recognition of prior learning is formally approved prior to your enrolment at Deakin during the Enrolment and Orientation Program. You must bring original documents relating to your previous study so that this approval can occur.
You can also refer to the recognition of prior learning (RPL) system which outlines the credit that may be granted towards a Deakin University degree.
Fees and scholarships
Fee information
Estimated tuition fee - full-fee paying place
$42,400 for 1 yr full-time AUD
Learn more about fees and your options for paying.
The tuition fees you pay are determined by the course you are enrolled in. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is provided as a guide only and represents the typical first-year tuition fees for students enrolled in this course. The cost will vary depending on the units you choose, your study load, the length of your course and any approved Recognition of prior learning you have.
Each unit you enrol in has a credit point value. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is calculated by adding together eight credit points of a typical combination of units for this course. Eight credit points is used as it represents a typical full-time enrolment load for a year.
You can find the credit point value of each unit under the Unit Description by searching for the unit in the handbook.
Learn more about international student fees.
Scholarship options
Deakin scholarships recognise your hard work and achievements. Our support can ease the financial pressure of studying in Australia so you stay focused on your success. Numbers are limited, so apply early for the best chance.
Apply now
Apply directly to Deakin
Applications can be made directly to the University through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's International Student Application Service.
We recommend engaging with a Deakin Authorised Agent who can assist you with the process and submit the application.
Apply through VTAC
If you are an international student completing an Australian Year 12 in Australia or overseas, you must submit an application through the Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre (VTAC). In addition, you may also apply directly to Deakin through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's international student application service.
Need more information on how to apply?
For information on the application process, including required documents and important dates, visit the How to apply webpage.
If you need assistance, please contact us.
Pathways
Articulated courses:
Career outcomes
As a graduate of the Bachelor of Environmental Science (Wildlife and Conservation Biology), you will be qualified for a career in wildlife conservation and management, or in environmental science more generally. You will be ready to take up challenging roles such as:
- wildlife officer
- zookeeper
- conservation officer
- vegetation manager
- pest manager
- wildlife manager
- park ranger
- project officer
- environmental consultant
- research scientist
- fire ecologist and manager
- GIS specialist
- wildlife biologist
- conservation biologist
- landscape ecologist.
Opportunities exist to work directly with wildlife, their habitats and threats, as well as the policies and strategies that guide their management. These types of roles are available across the private, government and not-for-profit sectors.
The Bachelor of Environmental Science (Wildlife and Conservation Biology) is professionally accredited by the Environment Institute of Australia and New Zealand (EIANZ). As a student of this course, you are encouraged to apply for EIANZ student membership and connect with the professional network that can support your future career as an environmental professional.
Environment Institute of Australia and New Zealand (EIANZ) membership is open to environmental practitioners at all stages of their career – from those still completing their studies to established experts. EIANZ is a leading professional body in Australia and New Zealand supporting environmental practitioners and promoting independent and interdisciplinary discussion on environmental issues. Membership details are available on the EIANZ website.
Professional recognition
The Bachelor of Environmental Science (Wildlife and Conservation Biology) is professionally accredited by the Environment Institute of Australia and New Zealand (EIANZ). As a student of this course, you are encouraged to apply for EIANZ student membership and connect with the professional network that can support your future career as an environmental professional.
Deakin's graduate learning outcomes describe the knowledge and capabilities graduates can demonstrate at the completion of their course. These outcomes mean that regardless of the Deakin course you undertake, you can rest assured your degree will teach you the skills and professional attributes that employers value. They'll set you up to learn and work effectively in the future.
| Deakin Graduate Learning Outcomes | Course Learning Outcomes |
|---|---|
| Discipline-specific knowledge and capabilities | Demonstrate a broad and coherent theoretical, applied and technical knowledge of wildlife and conservation biology, with particular knowledge of its relevance and application to biodiversity conservation. Use a broad set of field techniques and approaches to contribute to research and/or monitoring programs in field locations. |
| Communication | Clearly and coherently communicate information, conclusions and arguments regarding wildlife conservation and ecosystem management to a range of audiences for a range of purposes and using a variety of modes. |
| Digital literacy | Demonstrate and apply technologies to find, use, critically evaluate and, where appropriate, share scientifically valid information pertaining to wildlife and conservation biology. |
| Critical thinking | Identify and evaluate the importance of topical issues, problems and questions in wildlife and conservation biology. Evaluate, select and integrate established knowledge to formulate potential solutions to issues regarding biodiversity conservation. |
| Problem solving | Apply traditional and contemporary information technologies and methods to scope and solve real world (authentic) problems in discipline-specific and professional contexts. Develop appropriate hypotheses, collect relevant data and apply contemporary analytical tools and approaches, to solve environmental issues and interpret the findings. |
| Self-management | Take personal, professional and social responsibility for their own learning, including the capacity to engage in life-long learning by reflecting on learning, working responsibly and safely, understanding and demonstrating appropriate ethical conduct and behaviour. Demonstrated ability to document and show evidence of skills, attributes and experiences relevant to making the transition into the professional sphere. |
| Teamwork | Engage in, and contribute to, effective teams to deliver high quality, coherent outcomes. |
| Global citizenship | Recognise the social, cultural, ethical and economic drivers of environmental change, both locally and globally. Apply cultural awareness and professionalism in the workplace and/or academic settings. Integrate cultural and social considerations into possible wildlife conservation and management through appreciation of, and effective consultation with, key stakeholders. |
*Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.