Key facts
Duration
2 years full-time
Locations
Course overview
Explore how humanity can meet its growing needs while ensuring future generations can meet theirs in the Master of Sustainability (Professional). Focusing on multidisciplinary approaches to policy and management, you will acquire the advanced knowledge and skills needed to develop successful sustainability strategies that balance environmental, social and economic considerations.
This flexible course allows you to tailor your degree to suit your career aspirations by providing a choice of options towards the latter part of your studies – advanced research, elective study, or a combination of elective study and industry practice. You will build a solid foundation in sustainability, environmental science, and global change, before specialising in an area of your choosing. Whatever you choose, you will be equipped for a rewarding career effecting positive change.
Ready to take action for a brighter future?
Current Deakin students
To access your official course details for the year you started your degree, please visit the handbook
- Award granted
- Master of Sustainability (Professional)
- Year
2026 course information
- Deakin code
- S728
- CRICOS code?Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students
- 108874H Burwood (Melbourne)
- Level
- Higher Degree Coursework (Masters and Doctorates)
- Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) recognition
The award conferred upon completion is recognised in the Australian Qualifications Framework at Level 9
Flexible course delivery
Deakin’s blend of online and on-campus learning means you can balance work, study and personal development. Achieve work-life balance – study with Deakin's dedicated support and flexible learning options.
Course structure
To complete the Master of Sustainability (Professional), you must pass 8, 12 or 16 credit points. The number of credit points required may vary, depending on your entry point or how much credit you receive as recognition of prior learning (RPL) based on your professional experience and previous qualifications.
A 16-credit point Master of Sustainability (Professional) includes:
- DAI001 Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0-credit-point compulsory unit) in their first study period
- STP710 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit-point compulsory unit)
- 3 credit points of core units
- 4 credit point specialisation
- 9 credit point pathway which may comprise of:
- Research pathway (subject to meeting unit requirements)*
- Industry Practice pathway (subject to meeting unit requirements)^
- Advanced Discipline coursework pathway
* Students must have passed 7 level 7 units (6 units must be SLE coded units) and a WAM of 70 to be eligible for the Research Pathway.
^ Students must have passed STP710 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit-point compulsory unit), 8 credit points of study at level 7 units and have a minimum WAM of 70 to be eligible for the Industry Practice pathway.
Most units are equal to one credit point. As a full-time student you will study four credit points per trimester and usually undertake two trimesters per year.
All students are required to meet the University's academic progress and conduct requirements.
3
Core units
+
4
Specialisation units
+
9
Pathway units
=
16
Total units
Research pathway
Research Project Planning
Research Project (4 credit points)
Research Project (Advanced) (4 credit points)
OR
Industry practice pathway
Industry Practice Planning
Industry Practice A (2 credit points)
Industry Practice B (2 credit points)
plus 4 course elective units (4 credit points) from the course elective list
OR
Advanced discipline coursework pathway
9 course elective units (9 credit points) from the course elective list.
Students studying S728 Master of Sustainability (Professional) or S727 Master of Sustainability can choose any units from the list below to fill the course elective unit options (subject to meeting unit requirements).
Course elective units may also be chosen from the remaining specialisations (ie students enrolled in the environmental management specialisation may choose electives from within the health and environment specialisation).
Students choosing Deakin's microcredentials^ (0.5cp) through our Stackable short courses as electives must take at least 2 microcredentials to equate to 1 credit point of study.
Environmental management
Circular Economy
Environmental Protection
Risk Assessment and Control
Environmental Management Systems
Health and environment
Principles and Practice of Public Health
Health Promotion
Health Equity and Human Rights
Community Consultation and Participation
HMC703-OD Promoting Human and Planetary Health (0.5 credit points)^
Sustainable regional development
Climate Change, Adaptation and Mitigation
Regional Development Economics for Sustainability
Systems Thinking for Sustainability and Resilience
Spatial Analysis and Geographic Information Systems
Cities
Engineering Sustainability
Components of the Circular City (2 credit points) #
Interactions and Enablers of the Circular City (2 credit points) #
Urban Informatics
Sustainable Construction Studies
Building Systems and Environment
DMC723-OD Circular Cities: Building Sustainable Business Models (0.5 credit points)^
DMC722-OD Design for Circular Cities: Multi-scale Strategies for Circular Urban Economies (0.5 credit points)^
MMC701-SY Design Thinking (0.5 credit points)^
DMC721-OD Planning for Sustainability: Recycling and Waste in a Circular Economy (0.5 credit points)^
# not available in 2026
Communities and wellbeing
Introduction to International and Community Development
Community from Participation to Activism
Participatory and Community Development Practice
Community Capacity Building - Theory and Practice for Inclusion
Community Consultation and Participation
MMC713-SY Work and Wellbeing (0.5 credit points)^
Communications and attitude formation
Cross Cultural Communication and Practice
The Power and Perils of True Stories
Communication for Social Change
DMC706-OD Climate Change Communication (0.5 credit points)^
Cultural heritage
Heritage Practice: Conservation and Managing Change
World Heritage
Intangible Cultural Heritage
Sustainability and Human Rights in Heritage and Museums
Data science for sustainability
Responsible Artificial Intelligence
Foundation Skills in Data Analysis
Real World Analytics
Statistical Data Analysis
MMC711-SY Leading Digital and AI Transformation (0.5 credit points)^
DMC729-OD Emerging Technologies: Artificial Intelligence Applications (0.5 credit points)^
DMC727-OD Emerging Technologies: Blockchain Technologies (0.5 credit points)^
DMC725-OD Emerging Technologies: Emerging Cyber Threats and AI (0.5 credit points)^
DMC726-OD Emerging Technologies: Extended Reality (0.5 credit points)^
DMC728-OD Emerging Technologies: Green Computing (0.5 credit points)^
DMC724-OD Emerging Technologies: Quantum Computing Fundamentals and Applications (0.5 credit points)^
Digital tools for online influencing
Design Systems
Design for the Digital World
Social Media Content Creation
Energy
Energy Efficiency, Management and Market Analysis *
DMC716-OD Renewable Energy Microgrid: Integrating Green Hydrogen (0.5 credit points) ^
DMC715-OD Renewable Energy Microgrid: Market and Policy (0.5 credit points)^
DMC717-OD Renewable Energy Microgrid: Energy Management in Standalone and Grid-Connected Mode (0.5 credit points)^
*Must have an engineering background; unit chair approval is required for admission for any students outside of the School of Engineering.
Food, land and health
Food and Water Security
Agricultural Health and Medicine
Healthy and Sustainable Agricultural Communities
Policy and Practice for Healthy and Sustainable Food Systems
Global geopolitics and sustainable development
Charity, Influence Or Power? the Political and Economic Forces Shaping Aid
China and the World
The United Nations and International Organisation
International Conflict Analysis
Human Rights in World Politics
Global Political Economy
Global Trade and Supply Chains
Greening business and industry
Enterprise Value Creation: Sustainability and Integrated Reporting
Ethics of Digital Transformation
Ethical Decision Making in Organisations
Emerging Issues in International Operations
Environmental Sustainability for Business
Green Chemistry and Industrial Bioprocessing
DMC713-OD Life Cycle Assessment (0.5 credit points)^
DMC714-OD Environmental Cost-Benefit Analysis in Business (0.5 credit points)^
DMC720-OD Effective Reporting for Sustainability (0.5 credit points)^
DMC712-OD Forecasting in Business and Economics (0.5 credit points)^
MMC718-OD Predictive Modelling in Business and Economics (0.5 credit points)^
Inclusive and sustainable development
Development, Humanitarianism and Community in An Era of Crisis
Gender, Race and Culture
Principles of Humanitarianism and Disaster Management
Innovation and leadership
MMC706-OD Change Tools (0.5 credit points)^
DMC710-OD Crisis Leadership (0.5 credit points)^
MMC702-OD Foundations of Innovation (0.5 credit points)^
MMC709-SY Improve Your Presentation Skills (0.5 credit points)^
MMC703-OD Innovation and Ideation (0.5 credit points)^
MMC705-OD Innovation and Leadership (0.5 credit points)^
MMC704-OD Innovation and Organisational Change (0.5 credit points)^
MMC711-SY Leading Digital and AI Transformation (0.5 credit points)^
MMC708-SY Project Management (0.5 credit points)^
DMC709-OD Skill up to Lead Culturally Diverse Teams (0.5 credit points)^
MMC715-SY Sustainable Leadership to 2030 (0.5 credit points)^
International development
Climate Change and Sustainability
Introduction to International and Community Development
Participatory and Community Development Practice
Disaster Risk Reduction and Community Led Recovery
Policy and governance
Environmental Crime and Regulation
Non-Government Organisations and other Development Actors
Making Policy
Policy Lessons From Overseas
Intergovernmental Relations: Federalism, Power and Multi-Level Governance
Governance and Accountability in Turbulent Times
The Politics of Australia's Economy
Private Sector Development: Corporations, Social-Enterprise and Microfinance
Professional studies
Research Project Planning
Industry Practice Planning
^ Mix and match these Deakin approved stackable short courses (0.5cp microcredentials) to earn credit towards your degree, subject to eligibility. Any stacking must add up to a whole number to be used for credit. See more information on Stackable short course options.
Refer to the details of each specialisation for availability.
Intakes by location
The availability of a course varies across locations and intakes. This means that a course offered in Trimester 1 may not be offered in the same location for Trimester 2 or 3. Check each intake for up-to-date information on when and where you can commence your studies.
- Start date: March
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Online
- Start date: July
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Online
Course duration
You may be able to study available units in the optional third trimester to fast-track your degree, however your course duration may be extended if there are delays in meeting course requirements, such as completing a placement.
Mandatory student checks
Any unit which contains work integrated learning, a community placement or interaction with the community may require a police check, Working with Children Check or other check.
Workload
You can expect to participate in a range of teaching activities each week. This could include lectures, seminars, workshops, site visits and online interaction. You can refer to the individual unit details in the course structure for more information. You will also need to study and complete assessment tasks in your own time.
Participation requirements
Elective units may be selected that include compulsory placements, work-based training, community-based learning or collaborative research training arrangements.
Reasonable adjustments to participation and other course requirements will be made for students with a disability. More information available at Disability support services.
Work experience
Students will have an opportunity to complete work experience as part of the industry practice pathway.
Entry requirements
Selection is based on a holistic consideration of your academic merit, work experience, likelihood of success, availability of places, participation requirements, regulatory requirements, and individual circumstances. You will need to meet the minimum academic and English language proficiency requirements or higher to be considered for selection, but this does not guarantee admission.
A combination of qualifications and experience may be deemed equivalent to minimum academic requirements.
To be considered for admission to this degree you will need to meet the following criteria:
- completion of a bachelor degree or higher in any discipline
To meet the English language proficiency requirements of this course, you will need to demonstrate at least one of the following:
- bachelor degree from a recognised English-speaking country
- IELTS overall score of 6.5 (with no band score less than 6.0) or equivalent
- other evidence of English language proficiency (learn more about other ways to satisfy the requirements)
Learn more about Deakin courses and how we compare to other universities when it comes to the quality of our teaching and learning.
Not sure if you can get into Deakin postgraduate study? Postgraduate study doesn't have to be a balancing act; we provide flexible course entry and exit options based on your desired career outcomes and the time you're able to commit to your study.
Recognition of prior learning
If you have completed previous studies which you believe may reduce the number of units you have to complete at Deakin, indicate in the appropriate section on your application that you wish to be considered for Recognition of prior learning. You will need to provide a certified copy of your previous course details so your credit can be determined. If you are eligible, your offer letter will then contain information about your Recognition of prior learning.
Your Recognition of prior learning is formally approved prior to your enrolment at Deakin during the Enrolment and Orientation Program. You must bring original documents relating to your previous study so that this approval can occur.
You can also refer to the recognition of prior learning (RPL) system which outlines the credit that may be granted towards a Deakin University degree.
Fees and scholarships
Fee information
Estimated tuition fee - full-fee paying place
$43,600 for 1 yr full-time AUD
Learn more about fees and your options for paying.
The 'Estimated tuition fee' is provided as a guide only and represents the typical first-year tuition fees for students enrolled in this course. The cost will vary depending on the units you choose, your study load, the length of your course and any approved Recognition of prior learning you have.
One year full-time study load is typically represented by eight credit points of study. Each unit you enrol in has a credit point value. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is calculated by adding together eight credit points of a typical combination of units for your course.
You can find the credit point value of each unit under the Unit Description by searching for the unit in the handbook. Learn more about fees and available payment options.
Scholarship options
Deakin scholarships recognise your hard work and achievements. Our support can ease the financial pressure of studying in Australia so you stay focused on your success. Numbers are limited, so apply early for the best chance.
Postgraduate bursary
We love welcoming Deakin alumni back to continue their journey with us. If you're starting a postgraduate award course, you may be eligible for a 10% discount on your enrolment fees, applied per unit. It's our way of supporting your next step.
Apply now
Apply directly to Deakin
Applications can be made directly to the University through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's International Student Application Service.
We recommend engaging with a Deakin Authorised Agent who can assist you with the process and submit the application.
Need more information on how to apply?
For information on the application process, including required documents and important dates, see the How to apply webpage.
If you need assistance, please contact us.
Pathways
Graduates will be uniquely positioned to commence a PhD. You will have access to a range of elective units from a variety of relevant discipline areas across the University. This will allow you to tailor a program relevant to your specific interests. As a pathway to PhD, the course has a key component in the form of a research project. The thesis should offer a significant contribution to knowledge in the discipline concerned and demonstrate your capacity to carry out independent research.
Students not wishing to pursue further studies in research will have the opportunity to undertake an industry practice placement or undertake course electives that will allow them to complement their studies with a range of relevant options.
Alternate exits
Career outcomes
As a graduate of this course, you will be equipped with the skills to build a rewarding career effecting positive change. You will be well positioned to engage in the development and implementation of practical solutions to complex sustainability challenges. Employment opportunities exist in government, non-government organisations or in the private sector.
Depending on your area of expertise, management or consultant opportunities exist in areas including environmental protection, cultural and natural heritage management, environmental conservation, land and water management, natural resource management, agriculture, communications, and planning.
Those choosing to undertake the advanced research study option in the final year of this degree will also be well positioned to pursue further research studies, including a masters by research or PhD.
Professional recognition
The Master of Sustainability (Professional) is professionally accredited by the Environment Institute of Australia and New Zealand (EIANZ). As a student of this course, you are encouraged to apply for EIANZ student membership and connect with the professional network that can support your future career as an environmental professional.
Deakin's graduate learning outcomes describe the knowledge and capabilities graduates can demonstrate at the completion of their course. These outcomes mean that regardless of the Deakin course you undertake, you can rest assured your degree will teach you the skills and professional attributes that employers value. They'll set you up to learn and work effectively in the future.
| Deakin Graduate Learning Outcomes | Course Learning Outcomes |
|---|---|
| Discipline-specific knowledge and capabilities | Demonstrate mastery and specialist knowledge of natural and social sciences related to sustainability, environmental management, health and environment and sustainable regional development. Plan and execute a substantial research or industry based project to demonstrate a deep understanding and mastery within the sustainability, environmental management and sustainable regional development disciplines. Demonstrate well-developed judgement and responsibility to review, analyse and develop sustainability strategies based on holistic principles. |
| Communication | Present a reasoned argument that highlights essential details of sustainability, environmental management and sustainable regional development, theory and application, key observations, results and conclusions of scientific research in a professional manner using appropriate style, language and references including local, national, and international contributions or contexts. Apply listening skills and effective communication skills to accommodate, encourage and answer questions from a range of audience and to defend research/project findings and sustainability implementation propositions. Interpret the boundaries or limits of social and scientific information, data, discuss error, probability, uncertainty, conclusions and arguments to justify theoretical propositions, methodologies, methods, techniques, conclusions and professional decisions. |
| Digital literacy | Use well-developed technical skills, judgement and responsibility to independently locate, analyse, evaluate the merits of, synthesise and disseminate sustainability data, information and literature in the planning and implementation of projects to a range of stakeholders in sustainability, environmental management and sustainable regional development. Reflect on information, data and results and develop strategies for disseminating research outcomes in a digital world. |
| Critical thinking | Appraise complex social, economic and scientific methodologies and information from a broad range of interdisciplinary sources using critical, analytical and logical reasoning from multiple perspectives for evaluating and providing solutions to sustainability issues that incorporate the holistic principles. Formulate research questions to test and/ or contest ideas, concepts and theoretical propositions through an evidence-based well-structured project. |
| Problem solving | Plan and implement sustainability research investigation by using traditional and emerging techniques and technologies to identify problems and by applying analysis and synthesis skills, and triple-bottom line principles to solve research and/or practical problems. Demonstrate complex problem-solving skills by identifying and creating solutions to real world sustainability through social, economic and/or scientific inquiry. Contribute to advancements in scientific knowledge through mastery in the use of traditional and emerging instruments and techniques to device an investigation, and in the collection, interpretation, analysis, synthesis and dissemination of issues pertaining to the identification of issues and solutions to improve sustainability in general and/or environmental management and/or sustainable regional development. |
| Self-management | Take personal, professional and social responsibility within changing national and international professional contexts to develop autonomy as researchers and evaluate own performances. Work autonomously, responsibly and safely to solve unstructured problems and actively apply knowledge of social frameworks and scientific methodologies to make informed choices based on the triple-bottom line principles. |
| Teamwork | Work independently and collaboratively with advice from the supervisor towards achieving the outcomes of a project and thereby demonstrate interpersonal skills including the ability to brainstorm, negotiate, resolve conflicts, managing difficult and awkward conversations, provide constructive feedback and work in diverse professional, social and cultural contexts. |
| Global citizenship | Apply principles of sustainability and environmental management knowledge and skills with a high level of autonomy, judgement, responsibility and accountability in collaboration with the supervisor to articulate the place and importance of social and scientific inquiry in the local and global context. |
*Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.