Course overview
Develop a comprehensive understanding of human biology through the Bachelor of Biomedical Science. Gain the expertise and practical skills to contribute to disease diagnosis and treatment across molecular, cellular and systems levels. You will become proficient in biological sciences and disease mechanisms, empowering you to enact meaningful change. Tailor your degree by choosing from a range of majors, allowing you to explore your interests and become a specialist in your chosen field.
Explore areas such as early disease detection, disease progression, treatment strategies, and advancements in pharmaceutical science aimed at enhancing health outcomes. Prepare for your future career with extensive practical training opportunities built into your degree. Engage in hands-on learning experiences in our state-of-the-art laboratories, apply your knowledge in real-world biomedical contexts, and gain valuable industry exposure through 80 to 160 hours of work placement.
Want to make a real difference in people’s lives?
Current Deakin students
To access your official course details for the year you started your degree, please visit the handbook
- Award granted
- Bachelor of Biomedical Science
- Year
2026 course information
- VTAC code
- 1400314113 - Waurn Ponds (Geelong), International full-fee paying place
1400514113 - Burwood (Melbourne), International full-fee paying place - Deakin code
- S323
- CRICOS code?Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students
- 085577M Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Level
- Undergraduate
- Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) recognition
The award conferred upon completion is recognised in the Australian Qualifications Framework at Level 7
Milni's experience in biomedical science
Milni chose the course as a pathway to medical school. While gaining practical experience through a placement, she discovered an unexpected interest in research. She is now planning a research year before pursuing medicine and her goal of becoming a surgeon.
Course structure
To complete the Bachelor of Biomedical Science, you must pass 24 credit points. This includes:
- DAI001 Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0-credit-point compulsory unit) in your first study period
- SLE010 Laboratory and Fieldwork Safety Induction Program (0-credit-point compulsory unit)
- STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit-point compulsory unit)
- 15 credit points of core units
- 1 major (6 credit points)
- 3 credit points of open elective units
- a maximum of 10 credit points at level 1
- a minimum of 6 credit points at level 3.
Most units are equal to one credit point. As a full-time student you will study four credit points per trimester and usually undertake two trimesters per year.
All students are required to meet the University's academic progress and conduct requirements.
15
Core units
+
6
Major units
+
3
Elective units
=
24
Total
You must complete all units below:
Level 1 - Trimester 1
Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0 credit points)
Laboratory and Fieldwork Safety Induction Program (0 credit points)
Career Tools for Employability (0 credit points)
Essential Skills in Science
Cells and Genes
Chemistry in Our World *
plus one open elective/major unit (one credit point)
* Students with a background of high achievement in VCE Chemistry 3 and 4 (or equivalent) may choose to replace SLE133 Chemistry in Our World with an open elective unit.
Level 1 - Trimester 2
Chemistry for the Professional Sciences ^
Biology: Form and Function
Physics for the Life Sciences
plus one open elective/major unit (one credit point)
^Assumed knowledge: SLE133 Chemistry in our World or high achievement in VCE Chemistry 3 and 4 (or equivalent).
Students with a background of high achievement in VCE Chemistry 3 and 4 (or equivalent) may choose to replace SLE133 Chemistry in Our World with an open elective unit.
Level 2 - Trimester 1
Biochemistry
Research Methods and Data Analysis #
Microbiology
plus one open elective/major unit (one credit point)
Level 2 - Trimester 2
Genetics and Genomics
Systems Physiology
plus two open elective/major units (two credit points)
Level 3 - Trimester 1
Applications of Biomedical Science
plus three open elective/major units (three credit points)
Level 3 - Trimester 2
Medical Microbiology and Immunology
Advanced Cell Biology
Professional Practice #
plus one open elective/major unit (one credit point)
# Must have successfully completed STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0 credit point unit).
Select from a range of open electives offered across many courses, you may even be able to choose elective units from a completely different discipline area (subject to meeting unit requirements).
It is important to note that some elective units may include compulsory placement, study tours, work-based training or collaborative research training arrangements.
Recommended elective units:
Peoples of the World
Introduction to Anatomy and Physiology
Health Psychology (Behaviour Change)
Human Anatomy
Introduction to Psychology: Human Behaviour
Introduction to Psychology: Individual and Social Development
Cognitive Psychology
Biological Psychology (Brain and Behaviour)
Functional Human Anatomy
Nutritional Physiology
Introduction to Functions, Relations and Graphs
Applied Algebra and Statistics
Ecology and the Environment
Science and Society
Animal Behaviour
Global Environmental Placement
Research Project
Refer to the details of each major sequence for availability.
Students must complete one of the following major sequences:
Intakes by location
The availability of a course varies across locations and intakes. This means that a course offered in Trimester 1 may not be offered in the same location for Trimester 2 or 3. Check each intake for up-to-date information on when and where you can commence your studies.
- Start date: March
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Start date: July
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
Deakin splits the academic year into three terms, known as trimesters. Most students usually undertake two trimesters each year (March-June, July-November).
CHOOSE DEAKIN, THE #1 VICTORIAN UNIVERSITY FOR COURSE SATISFACTION
Course duration
You may be able to study available units in the optional third trimester to fast-track your degree, however your course duration may be extended if there are delays in meeting course requirements, such as completing a placement.
Mandatory student checks
Any unit which contains work integrated learning, a community placement or interaction with the community may require a police check, Working with Children Check or other check.
Workload
You can expect to participate in a range of teaching activities each week. This could include classes, seminars, practicals and online interaction. You can refer to the individual unit details in the course structure for more information. You will also need to study and complete assessment tasks in your own time.
Participation requirements
You may be required to complete units in Trimester 3 depending on your chosen major or campus. Please refer to the Handbook for unit offering patterns.
Work experience
You’ll gain practical experience through a placement of 80 to 160 hours at a course-related host organisation. This provides you with opportunities for workplace visits, field trips and industry learning, helping you build valuable professional networks and gain insight into your potential career outcomes. Explore the SEBE WIL program.
Elective units may also provide additional opportunities for Work Integrated Learning experiences.
#1 Victorian uni for graduate employment
Choose a Deakin degree for vital industry experience on placements, hands-on learning in world-class facilities and guidance from industry-expert academics. We offer lifetime career support and are the #1 Victorian university for graduate employment.
Entry requirements
Selection is based on a holistic consideration of your academic merit, work experience, likelihood of success, availability of places, participation requirements, regulatory requirements, and individual circumstances. You will need to meet the minimum academic and English language proficiency requirements to be considered for selection, but this does not guarantee admission.
A combination of qualifications and experience may be deemed equivalent to minimum academic requirements.
If you don't meet the academic entry requirements as outlined in the tabs below, or haven't completed Year 12, or don't hold any relevant qualifications, the STAT (Skills for Tertiary Admissions Test) Multiple Choice (MC) may be an option for you to meet course entry requirements.
Academic requirements
If you’re currently studying Year 12, or completed Year 12 in the last two years, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
Year 12 prerequisite subjects
- Units 3 and 4: a study score of at least 25 in English EAL (English as an Additional Language) or at least 20 in English other than EAL
ATAR
- Senior Secondary Certificate of Education with an unadjusted ATAR of at least 50 or equivalent
If you have undertaken higher education studies after secondary schooling, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- successful completion of at least two bachelor level or above units (AQF Level 7 or equivalent)
If you have undertaken any Vocational Education and Training (VET) study after secondary school, you will need to meet at least one of following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- completion of a certificate IV or higher in a related discipline
- completion of a diploma or higher in any discipline
- at least 50% completion of a diploma or higher in a related discipline
If you finished Year 12 more than three years ago, or did not finish Year 12, and have not undertaken any further study, you may be considered for admission to this degree based on your work, volunteer and/or life experience.
Submit a personal statement outlining your motivation to study, previous education and employment history, and how this course can assist your career aspirations or progression. Think of it as a job application cover letter – it should be relevant and demonstrate your commitment and interest in this course or study area.
Find the entry requirement for your country?International entry score
We are comparing your country’s qualification to the Australian ATAR score. Meeting this score does not guarantee admission into a course. Admission is subject to meeting all criteria, including English language requirements.
To meet the English language proficiency requirements of this course, you will need to demonstrate at least one of the following:
- Victorian Certificate of Education (VCE) English Units 3 and 4: Study score of 25 in English as an Additional Language (EAL) or 20 in any other English
- IELTS overall score of 6.0 (with no band score less than 6.0) or equivalent
- other evidence of English language proficiency (learn more about other ways to satisfy the requirements)
Subject adjustment
A study score of 35 in any English, any Mathematics or any Science equals 3 aggregate points per study. A study score of 30 in any English, any Mathematics or any Science equals 2 aggregate points per study. Overall maximum of 10 points.
Access and equity
Equity schemes and scholarships, formerly known as Special Entry Access Schemes (SEAS), enable Deakin to consider any disadvantaged circumstances you may have experienced and how these have impacted your studies. Equity schemes help us identify whether you are from an under-represented group when making selection decisions for certain courses. It's important to note that participation in an equity scheme does not exempt you from meeting the standard course entry requirements. Learn more about Deakin's equity schemes and scholarships.
Learn more about Deakin courses and how we compare to other universities when it comes to the quality of our teaching and learning. We're also committed to admissions transparency. Read about our first intake of 2025 students (PDF, 812KB) – their average ATARs, whether they had any previous higher education experience and more.
Not sure if you can get into Deakin? Discover the different entry pathways we offer and study options available to you, no matter your ATAR or education history.
Recognition of prior learning
If you have completed previous studies which you believe may reduce the number of units you have to complete at Deakin, indicate in the appropriate section on your application that you wish to be considered for Recognition of prior learning. You will need to provide a certified copy of your previous course details so your credit can be determined. If you are eligible, your offer letter will then contain information about your credit for prior learning.
Your Recognition of prior learning is formally approved prior to your enrolment at Deakin during the Enrolment and Orientation Program. You must bring original documents relating to your previous study so that this approval can occur.
You can also refer to the recognition of prior learning (RPL) system which outlines the credit that may be granted towards a Deakin University degree.
Fees and scholarships
Fee information
Estimated tuition fee - full-fee paying place
$45,400 for 1 yr full-time AUD
Learn more about fees and your options for paying.
The tuition fees you pay are determined by the course you are enrolled in. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is provided as a guide only and represents the typical first-year tuition fees for students enrolled in this course. The cost will vary depending on the units you choose, your study load, the length of your course and any approved Recognition of prior learning you have.
Each unit you enrol in has a credit point value. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is calculated by adding together eight credit points of a typical combination of units for this course. Eight credit points is used as it represents a typical full-time enrolment load for a year.
You can find the credit point value of each unit under the Unit Description by searching for the unit in the handbook.
Learn more about international student fees.
Scholarship options
Deakin scholarships recognise your hard work and achievements. Our support can ease the financial pressure of studying in Australia so you stay focused on your success. Numbers are limited, so apply early for the best chance.
Apply now
Apply directly to Deakin
Applications can be made directly to the University through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's International Student Application Service.
We recommend engaging with a Deakin Authorised Agent who can assist you with the process and submit the application.
Apply through VTAC
If you are an international student completing an Australian Year 12 in Australia or overseas, you must submit an application through the Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre (VTAC). In addition, you may also apply directly to Deakin through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's international student application service.
Need more information on how to apply?
For information on the application process, including required documents and important dates, visit the How to apply webpage.
If you need assistance, please contact us.
Pathways
Articulated courses:
Career outcomes
The Bachelor of Biomedical Science opens up a world of exciting and diverse career opportunities across the health, science and business sectors. Graduates may move into roles and sectors such as:
- medical research
- genetic engineering
- the pharmaceutical industry
- pharmaceutical/medical sales
- laboratory technology
- laboratory medical scientist
- biotechnology
- healthcare technician
- regulatory affairs
- occupational health and safety
- biomedical sales
- science writer
- physiotherapy
- dietetics
- public health
- health promotion
- chiropractic
- data science
- teaching
- occupational therapy
- speech pathology
- genetic counselling
- patent law.
As a STEM professional, you will also possess strong creativity, problem-solving, critical-thinking and communication skills. These are relevant to a wide range of occupations and will enable you to excel in the business and commercial sectors. You could be a consultant, market researcher or even sales executive, working for:
- consultancy agencies
- accountants
- insurances
- banks.
You may also choose to progress to an honours degree or pursue postgraduate study. This could involve specialising further within biomedical science to strengthen your professional development as a scientist, or branching into areas such as allied health to complement your scientific training and expand your career options. It is important to note that certain opportunities , like allied health, have highly competitive entry requirements due to strong demand.
Deakin's graduate learning outcomes describe the knowledge and capabilities graduates can demonstrate at the completion of their course. These outcomes mean that regardless of the Deakin course you undertake, you can rest assured your degree will teach you the skills and professional attributes that employers value. They'll set you up to learn and work effectively in the future.
| Deakin Graduate Learning Outcomes | Course Learning Outcomes |
|---|---|
| Discipline-specific knowledge and capabilities | Develop foundational knowledge of chemistry, physics, mathematics and biology to demonstrate broad and coherent understanding of molecular, cellular and physiological aspects of human biology and disease. Use scientific process of experimentation from conception of an idea to testing of hypotheses and interpretation of scientific information, and apply procedures in order to explore, experiment and expand knowledge in familiar and unfamiliar situations. Critically evaluate current and historical scientific literature, generate original ideas, and effectively apply theoretical knowledge to the conception of new ideas, interpretation of biomedical information and professional practice. |
| Communication | Apply well-developed communication skills to illustrate ideas and conceptions clearly and coherently using a variety of tools and techniques that engage scientific and non-scientific audiences. Articulate scientific information in a structured form to describe scientific problems, formulate hypotheses, analyse evidence in order to support or oppose the interpretations of findings and conclusions, in light of the evidence from scientific studies. |
| Digital literacy | Locate, analyse and interpret information to differentiate established facts from new evidence using scientific tools in a digital world to formulate an opinion. Evaluate information using evidence from a range of reliable sources to establish scientific knowledge, recognise ambiguity and disseminate information. |
| Critical thinking | Use abstract, analytical and logical reasoning to critically evaluate scientific arguments and approaches. Apply critical reasoning in a variety of situations to scope, interpret and structure investigations to develop an in-depth knowledge for professional biomedical practice. |
| Problem solving | Identify scientific problems and use structured approaches and experimental strategies to formulate and propose solutions by taking into account relevant discipline and contextual factors. Use judgement to convince scientific and non-scientific audience, in the use of strategies to generate solutions to real world problems. |
| Self-management | Evaluate own knowledge and skills using frameworks of reflection and take responsibility for learning and performance. Work responsibly and safely in scientific and professional environments to enrich the ideas of others by sharing learning experiences. |
| Teamwork | Work effectively as a team member, assuming various roles and utilising effective teamwork skills in order to achieve goals. |
| Global citizenship | Apply ethical practice in professional situations to demonstrate responsibility as practitioners when working with people from diverse cultures and communities. Identify and prioritise local, national and global issues and concerns and contribute towards solving real world problems from the context of biomedical science. |
*Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.