Course overview
Go beyond the classroom with Deakin’s future-focused Bachelor of Engineering (Honours). Get the skills and hands-on experience to create innovative solutions to real-world engineering problems. You will develop the knowledge and expertise to enter professional engineering practice in civil, environmental and sustainability, electrical and renewable energy, mechanical or mechatronics engineering.
Designed for future-focused problem solvers who want to make a positive impact, Deakin’s engineering degrees are built around innovation, industry connection and real-world experience. Unlike traditional theory-first programs, you will learn through immersive, project-based experiences from day one – collaborating, creating and solving industry challenges using cutting-edge technology. Graduate confident, capable and ready to engineer change.
Want to turn your big ideas into creative engineering solutions?
Current Deakin students
To access your official course details for the year you started your degree, please visit the handbook
- Award granted
- Bachelor of Engineering (Honours)
- Year
2026 course information
- VTAC code
- 1400312053 - Waurn Ponds (Geelong), International full-fee paying place
1400512053 - Burwood (Melbourne), International full-fee paying place - Deakin code
- S467
- CRICOS code?Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students
- 113508K Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Level
- Undergraduate
- Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) recognition
The award conferred upon completion is recognised in the Australian Qualifications Framework at Level 8
Morgan’s journey in engineering at Deakin
Morgan shares her experience studying environmental engineering) and how Deakin is designed to support different learning styles. As a hands-on learner with a passion for sustainability, she reflects on supportive lecturers and creating solutions to real-life challenges.
Course structure
To complete the Bachelor of Engineering (Honours), you must pass 32 credit points. This includes:
- DAI001 Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0-credit-point compulsory unit) in your first study period
- STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit-point compulsory unit)
- SEJ010 Introduction to Safety and Project Oriented Learning (0-credit-point compulsory unit)
- SLE010 Laboratory and Fieldwork Safety Induction Program (0-credit-point compulsory unit)^
- 11 credit points of core units
- 1 major (19 credit points)
- 2 credit points of open elective units*
- a maximum of 10 credit points at level 1
- a minimum of 10 credit points at level 3 or above.
* Students who have not previously completed VCE Mathematical Methods (units 3 and 4) are advised to undertake SIT190 Introduction to Functions, Relations and Graphs in the first trimester of their engineering course. Therefore, these students may only be required to complete 1 elective unit (instead of 2 elective units).
^Students must complete this unit as part of the environmental and sustainability engineering major.
Most units are equal to one credit point. As a full-time student you will study four credit points per trimester and usually undertake two trimesters per year.
All students are required to meet the University's academic progress and conduct requirements.
11
Core units
+
19
Major units
+
2
Elective units
=
32
Total
Refer to the details of each major sequence for availability.
Intakes by location
The availability of a course varies across locations and intakes. This means that a course offered in Trimester 1 may not be offered in the same location for Trimester 2 or 3. Check each intake for up-to-date information on when and where you can commence your studies.
- Start date: March
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Online
- Start date: July
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Online
Students enrolled at Burwood should note the following as the majors are being phased in:
-
Third year units of the environmental and sustainability engineering, mechanical engineering, and mechatronics engineering majors will be available at Burwood from 2026, fourth and fifth year units from 2027.
-
Second year units of the civil engineering and the electrical and renewable energy engineering majors will be available from 2026, third year units from 2027, fourth and fifth year units from 2028.
Recognition for prior learning (RPL)
- Students commencing at Burwood with RPL in the civil engineering or electrical and renewable energy engineering majors may need to study part time as third year units will not be available at Burwood until 2027. Students will need to be assessed on a case by case basis.
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS: due to Australian Government regulations, student visas to enter Australia cannot be issued to students who enrol in this fully online degree through Deakin Online.
#1 Victorian uni for graduate employment
Choose a Deakin degree for vital industry experience on placements, hands-on learning in world-class facilities and guidance from industry-expert academics. We offer lifetime career support and are the #1 Victorian university for graduate employment.
Articulation and credit transfer
Flexible entry into the course allows students to upgrade their qualifications and to obtain credit for previous studies/experience. Applicants with appropriate TAFE qualifications or other approved post-secondary studies may apply for Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL). Credit may be considered for skills obtained in the workforce or by informal means.
Equipment requirements
Students must have access to a suitable computer and a network connection. The learning experiences and assessment activities within this course may also require that students have access to a range of software. Access to high-cost specialist equipment is provided but students may be required to purchase minor equipment for particular unit(s) as detailed in unit site.
Course duration
You may be able to study available units in the optional third trimester to fast-track your degree, however your course duration may be extended if there are delays in meeting course requirements, such as completing a placement.
Mandatory student checks
Any unit which contains work integrated learning, a community placement or interaction with the community may require a police check, Working with Children Check or other check.
Workload
You can expect to participate in a range of teaching activities each week. This could include lectures, seminars, practicals and online interaction. You can refer to the individual unit details in the course structure for more information. You will also need to study and complete assessment tasks in your own time.
Participation requirements
In order to satisfy course accreditation requirements, as specified and administered by Engineers Australia, all online enrolled students, or students enrolled online in specified units, are required to participate in campus-based learning activities at our Geelong Waurn Ponds Campus during intensive week each trimester. This ensures that graduates possess and have demonstrated the minimum necessary knowledge and skill base, engineering application abilities, and professional skills, values and attitudes at successful completion of the course to be sufficiently prepared to enter professional engineering practice.
Attendance and participation in learning activities during intensive week is linked to assessment requirements within the Engineering programs, and failure to attend may result in students not meeting the hurdle requirement of the respective assessment. This may result in a fail grade being awarded for the respective affected unit(s) for that particular trimester.
International students: Please note that due to Australian Government regulations, student visas to enter Australia cannot be issued to students who enrol in Deakin online. To participate in the mandatory campus based scheduled sessions during the trimester intensive week, it is suggested that you apply for a tourist visa to enter Australia. Please be advised that Deakin University cannot guarantee that you will be granted a tourist visa by the Australian Government.
International students studying online may not be granted a visitor visa to complete mandatory components of the course at a campus.
Placement can occur at any time, including during standard holiday breaks. Learn about key dates at Deakin.
Elective units may be selected that include compulsory placements, work-based training, community-based learning or collaborative research training arrangements.
Reasonable adjustments to participation and other course requirements will be made for students with a disability. More information available at Disability support services.
Work experience
Through SEL703 Professional Practice, you'll gain industry experience by completing at least 30 to 60 days of practical work experience in an engineering workplace. This gives you the opportunity to explore potential career paths and build valuable professional networks. Assessment tasks will deepen your understanding of the engineering profession and strengthen your professional practice skills. Learn more about SEBE work integrated learning.
Entry requirements
Selection is based on a holistic consideration of your academic merit, work experience, likelihood of success, availability of places, participation requirements, regulatory requirements, and individual circumstances. You will need to meet the minimum academic and English language proficiency requirements to be considered for selection, but this does not guarantee admission.
A combination of qualifications and experience may be deemed equivalent to minimum academic requirements.
If you don't meet the academic entry requirements as outlined in the tabs below, or haven't completed Year 12, or don't hold any relevant qualifications, the STAT (Skills for Tertiary Admissions Test) Multiple Choice (MC) may be an option for you to meet course entry requirements.
Academic requirements
If you're currently studying Year 12, or completed Year 12 in the last two years, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
Year 12 prerequisite subjects
- Units 3 and 4: a study score of at least 25 in English EAL (English as an Additional Language) or at least 20 in English other than EAL
- Units 3 and 4: a study score of at least 20 in one of Maths: Mathematical Methods or Maths: Specialist Mathematics or Maths: General Mathematics
ATAR
- Senior Secondary Certificate of Education with an unadjusted ATAR of at least 50 or equivalent
If you have undertaken higher education studies after secondary schooling, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- successful completion of at least two bachelor level or above units (AQF Level 7 or equivalent) with a minimum WAM of 60 or equivalent
- evidence of mathematical ability (equivalent to that of the Year 12 maths prerequisite)
If you have undertaken any Vocational Education and Training (VET) study after secondary school, you will need to meet at least one of following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- completion of a certificate IV or higher in a related discipline
- completion of a diploma or higher in any discipline
- at least 50% completion of a diploma or higher in a related discipline
You will also require evidence of mathematical ability (equivalent to that of the Year 12 maths prerequisite).
If you finished Year 12 more than three years ago, or did not finish Year 12, and haven’t undertaken any further study, you may be considered for admission to this degree based on your work, volunteer and/or life experience.
Submit a personal statement outlining your motivation to study, previous education and employment history, and how this course can assist your career aspirations or progression. Think of it as a job application cover letter – it should be relevant and demonstrate your commitment and interest in this course or study area.
You will also require evidence of mathematical ability (equivalent to that of the Year 12 maths prerequisite).
Find the entry requirement for your country?International entry score
We are comparing your country’s qualification to the Australian ATAR score. Meeting this score does not guarantee admission into a course. Admission is subject to meeting all criteria, including English language requirements.
To meet the English language proficiency requirements of this course, you will need to demonstrate at least one of the following:
- Victorian Certificate of Education (VCE) English Units 3 and 4: Study score of 25 in English as an Additional Language (EAL) or 20 in any other English
- IELTS overall score of 6.0 (with no band score less than 6.0) or equivalent
- other evidence of English language proficiency (learn more about other ways to satisfy the requirements
Subject adjustment
A study score of 30 in any English, Maths: Mathematical Methods, Maths: Specialist Mathematics, Physics or Systems Engineering equals 2 aggregate points per study. Overall maximum of 10 points.
Access and equity
Equity schemes and scholarships, formerly known as Special Entry Access Schemes (SEAS), enable Deakin to consider any disadvantaged circumstances you may have experienced and how these have impacted your studies. Equity schemes help us identify whether you are from an under-represented group when making selection decisions for certain courses. It's important to note that participation in an equity scheme does not exempt you from meeting the standard course entry requirements. Learn more about Deakin's equity schemes and scholarships.
Learn more about Deakin courses and how we compare to other universities when it comes to the quality of our teaching and learning. We're also committed to admissions transparency. Read about our first intake of 2025 students (PDF, 812KB) – their average ATARs, whether they had any previous higher education experience and more.
Not sure if you can get into Deakin? Discover the different entry pathways we offer and study options available to you, no matter your ATAR or education history.
Recognition of prior learning
If you have completed previous studies which you believe may reduce the number of units you have to complete at Deakin, indicate in the appropriate section on your application that you wish to be considered for Recognition of prior learning. You will need to provide a certified copy of your previous course details so your credit can be determined. If you are eligible, your offer letter will then contain information about your Recognition of prior learning.
Your Recognition of prior learning is formally approved prior to your enrolment at Deakin during the Enrolment and Orientation Program. You must bring original documents relating to your previous study so that this approval can occur.
You can also refer to the recognition of prior learning (RPL) system which outlines the credit that may be granted towards a Deakin University degree.
The University aims to provide students with as much credit as possible for approved prior study or informal learning which exceeds the normal entrance requirements for the course and is within the constraints of the course regulations. Students are required to complete a minimum of 50% of the course at Deakin University.
You can also refer to the Recognition of prior learning System which outlines the credit that may be granted towards a Deakin University degree.
Fees and scholarships
Fee information
Estimated tuition fee - full-fee paying place
$45,000 for 1 yr full-time AUD
Learn more about fees and your options for paying.
The tuition fees you pay are determined by the course you are enrolled in. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is provided as a guide only and represents the typical first-year tuition fees for students enrolled in this course. The cost will vary depending on the units you choose, your study load, the length of your course and any approved Recognition of prior learning you have.
Each unit you enrol in has a credit point value. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is calculated by adding together eight credit points of a typical combination of units for this course. Eight credit points is used as it represents a typical full-time enrolment load for a year.
You can find the credit point value of each unit under the Unit Description by searching for the unit in the handbook.
Learn more about international student fees.
Scholarship options
Deakin scholarships recognise your hard work and achievements. Our support can ease the financial pressure of studying in Australia so you stay focused on your success. Numbers are limited, so apply early for the best chance.
CHOOSE DEAKIN, THE #1 VICTORIAN UNIVERSITY FOR COURSE SATISFACTION
Apply now
Apply directly to Deakin
Applications can be made directly to the University through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's International Student Application Service.
We recommend engaging with a Deakin Authorised Agent who can assist you with the process and submit the application.
Apply through VTAC
If you are an international student completing an Australian Year 12 in Australia or overseas, you must submit an application through the Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre (VTAC). In addition, you may also apply directly to Deakin through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's international student application service.
Need more information on how to apply?
For information on the application process, including required documents and important dates, visit the How to apply webpage.
If you need assistance, please contact us.
Career outcomes
Given the international skills shortage in the engineering industry, Deakin graduates are in demand both in Australia and abroad. According to the Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021-2023, 93.4% of our engineering graduates secured full-time employment within four months of graduation.
A recent report from the Australian Council of Engineering Deans (ACED) estimates that around 100,000 engineers will be needed by 2030 to deliver on government initiatives in energy, transport and built infrastructure, defence, minerals and advanced manufacturing.* Environmental engineers and renewable energy engineers are also among the 15 fastest-growing jobs worldwide,^ offering graduates a clear path towards a promising and future-proof career.
Secure your future career by learning the design, development and production skills needed to work in a diverse range of industries shaping the systems of the future. Depending on your major, you can expect to gain employment in a wide range of private and government organisations. Roles may range from construction to environmental protection, or from robotics to building the infrastructure of tomorrow.
* Australian Council of Engineering Deans: Shortages of Engineers and Supply Projections, Dec 2021.
^ World Economic Forum’s ‘The Future of Jobs Report 2025’.
Professional recognition
Deakin offers its undergraduate engineering courses across three locations: Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online, and our newest campus at Burwood (Melbourne).
Currently, all undergraduate engineering courses at Waurn Ponds and in Online mode are accredited. The Burwood offering the undergraduate courses are not yet accredited by Engineers Australia. Each course (and engineering major offered within) is accredited separately by Engineers Australia for each campus. Full accreditation can only be granted when the first cohort of students complete the course at Burwood, which is a standard Engineers Australia’s accreditation process.
Deakin School of Engineering is working towards an accreditation review for the Burwood offering in September 2026. We are seeking accreditation to be granted and applied to all students who commenced their course at Burwood from the start of 2024. This means, once accreditation is granted by Engineers Australia for the Burwood offering, it will be retrospectively applied to all Burwood students who graduate with a Deakin undergraduate engineering degree.
It’s important to note that the Burwood course is identical to the accredited program at Waurn Ponds and Online. Students at Burwood receive the same curriculum, learning outcomes, and academic standards, and the same high quality learning experience at Burwood. We believe there is no risk to Burwood Campus engineering program offering being awarded full accreditation once the first cohort of Burwood Campus students have graduated.
Deakin's graduate learning outcomes describe the knowledge and capabilities graduates can demonstrate at the completion of their course. These outcomes mean that regardless of the Deakin course you undertake, you can rest assured your degree will teach you the skills and professional attributes that employers value. They'll set you up to learn and work effectively in the future.
| Deakin Graduate Learning Outcomes | Course Learning Outcomes |
|---|---|
| Discipline-specific knowledge and capabilities | Design, develop, implement, manage and evaluate sustainable and innovative engineering solutions for real-world problems by integrating and applying well-developed knowledge and skills in natural and physical sciences, engineering and project management, and by showing concern for environmental, social and economic impact. Apply engineering and scientific techniques to study engineering problems, evaluate the benefits, risks and uncertainty associated with the use of specific engineering tools and techniques, and evaluate the effectiveness of designs and experiments that are used to determine a solution. Plan and execute practice- based projects to show capacity for advanced knowledge and skills in a discipline of engineering and thereby demonstrate the ability to research and continue professional development and scholarship. |
| Communication | Effectively apply verbal and non-verbal communication skills by actively listening, speaking, reading, writing, and graphically representing an engineering position using appropriate means, considerate of the audience and viewpoint of others. |
| Digital literacy | Identify, select and use digital technologies and tools relevant to an engineering discipline to use, manage, generate and share information, evaluate its reliability, and use the information for engineering design, problem solving and research purposes. Demonstrate the ability to independently and systematically locate and share information, laws, policies and regulations that pertain to engineering practice. |
| Critical thinking | Use knowledge of natural and physical sciences, and engineering skills and processes to identify and define problems in a variety of contexts and to study the nature and the impact of those problems. Apply critical and analytical thinking and judgment in evaluating data and information and integrating knowledge to develop new understanding, formulate appropriate and sustainable engineering design solutions and manage their implementation, operation and delivery ensuring effectiveness and efficiency. |
| Problem solving | Evaluate and use established engineering principles and practice approaches to identify potential solutions to resolve complex, real-world engineering problems and realise solutions independently and collaboratively. Demonstrate innovative and creative approaches and solutions to engineering problems that are constrained by local, national, global, and contemporary issues and show capacity for planning, designing, executing, and managing engineering projects. |
| Self-management | Proactively and critically self-assess and use reflection as a strategy for lifelong learning, professional development, and career thinking. Manage personal actions, priorities, and behaviours effectively in consideration of others, to ensure integrity in professional judgement and decision-making. |
| Teamwork | Demonstrate the value of trust by being a competent, reliable team member, who recognises and respects the roles and viewpoints of others, the fundamentals of team dynamics, and the value in pursuing expert assistance when required to nurture relationships that foster mutual engagement of others to collaboratively solve problems together. Work with, influence, and organise other people and resources to perform necessary work in accordance with a mutually agreed schedule, by applying the fundamentals of business and project planning, financial management, risk management, and human resources to an engineering context. |
| Global citizenship | Value the perspectives of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples as well as diverse communities and cultures in a global context and situate own engineering practice by demonstrating commitment to safe, ethical and sustainable practices, and applying social, legal, and environmental responsibilities to exert a positive influence in the community. |
*Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.