Course overview
Study marine science at Deakin where you will have access to spectacular marine environments teeming with rich biodiversity on your doorstep. Become an expert in ocean systems by exploring a broad range of disciplines, including marine biology and ecology, oceanography, marine mapping, conservation, aquaculture, fisheries, and marine and coastal management. The Bachelor of Marine Science equips you with the skills needed to create a sustainable future for the world’s oceans.
You will learn from expert marine science teaching staff in labs and facilities equipped for exploring and understanding the biological, chemical and physical processes of life underwater. Our facilities are located at the doorstep of the Great Southern Reef where rocky shores, seagrass beds, mangroves and iconic surf beaches become your classroom.
Want to join the growing marine science community and help build a sustainable blue economy?
Current Deakin students
To access your official course details for the year you started your degree, please visit the handbook
- Award granted
- Bachelor of Marine Science
- Year
2026 course information
- VTAC code
- 1400310633 - Waurn Ponds (Geelong), International full-fee paying place
1400710633 - Warrnambool, International full-fee paying place - Deakin code
- S337
- CRICOS code?Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students
- 0100303 Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Warrnambool
- Level
- Undergraduate
- Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) recognition
The award conferred upon completion is recognised in the Australian Qualifications Framework at Level 7
#1 Victorian uni for graduate employment
Choose a Deakin degree for vital industry experience on placements, hands-on learning in world-class facilities and guidance from industry-expert academics. We offer lifetime career support and are the #1 Victorian university for graduate employment.
Course structure
To complete the Bachelor of Marine Science, you must pass 24 credit points. This includes:
- DAI001 Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0-credit-point compulsory unit) in your first study period
- SLE010 Laboratory and Fieldwork Safety Induction Program (0-credit-point compulsory unit)
- STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit-point compulsory unit)
- 12 credit points of core units
- 1 major (6 credit points)
- 6 credit points - one of:
- 1 minor (4 credit points) and 2 credit points of open elective units
- 6 credit points of open elective units
- a maximum of 10 credit points at level 1
- a minimum of 14 credit points over levels 2 and 3
- a minimum of 6 credit points at level 3.
Most units are equal to one credit point. As a full-time student you will study four credit points per trimester and usually undertake two trimesters per year.
All students are required to meet the University's academic progress and conduct requirements.
12
Core units
+
6
Major Units
+
6
Elective units
=
24
Total units
Level 1 - Trimester 1
Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0 credit points)
Career Tools for Employability (0 credit points)
Laboratory and Fieldwork Safety Induction Program (0 credit points)
Marine Environments #
Cells and Genes
Chemistry in Our World
Plus one elective unit (one credit point) or one minor unit (one credit point)
Level 1 - Trimester 2
Ocean Processes
Oceans, Coasts and Climate Change
Marine Science Major unit (one credit point)
Plus one elective unit (one credit point) or one minor unit (one credit point)
Level 2 - Trimester 1
Marine Biology
Research Methods and Data Analysis #
Marine Science Major unit (one credit point)
Plus one elective unit (one credit point) or one minor unit (one credit point)
Level 2 - Trimester 2
Marine Ecology
Marine Geographic Information Systems
Marine Science Major unit (one credit point)
Plus one elective unit (one credit point) or one minor unit (one credit point)
Level 2 - Trimester 3
Marine Wildlife
Level 3 - Trimester 1
Professional Practice #
Transdisciplinary Marine Research
Marine Science Major unit (1 credit point)
Plus one elective unit (one credit point) or one minor unit (one credit point)
Level 3 - Trimester 2
2 x Marine Science Major units (2 credit points)
Plus one elective unit (one credit point) or one minor unit (one credit point)
# Must have successfully completed STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0 credit point unit)
Select 6 open elective units (6 credit points) or complete one of the two minors* listed below. You may even be able to choose elective units from a completely different discipline area (subject to meeting unit requirements).
It is important to note that some elective units may include compulsory placement, study tours, work-based training or collaborative research training arrangements.
Minors*:
*Each minor is comprised of 4 credit points
Refer to the details of each major sequence for availability.
Students must complete at least one major from the following areas:
Marine Science Majors:
Each major is comprised of six (6) credit points - one credit point per unit
Ocean, Fisheries and Aquaculture Sciences (Geelong)
Sustainable Marine Management (Warrnambool)
Intakes by location
The availability of a course varies across locations and intakes. This means that a course offered in Trimester 1 may not be offered in the same location for Trimester 2 or 3. Check each intake for up-to-date information on when and where you can commence your studies.
- Start date: March
- Available at:
- Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Warrnambool
- Start date: July
- Available at:
- Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Warrnambool
* Students may be required to undertake cross campus study between the Waurn Ponds and Warrnambool campuses for some units depending on the Major or electives selected
Deakin splits the academic year into three terms, known as trimesters. Most students usually undertake two trimesters each year (March-June, July-November).
CHOOSE DEAKIN, THE #1 VICTORIAN UNIVERSITY FOR COURSE SATISFACTION
Course expenses
In addition to student contribution fees, students should be aware that they may be required to meet their own expenses in connection with travel, food and accommodation while on fieldwork.
Course duration
You may be able to study available units in the optional third trimester to fast-track your degree, however your course duration may be extended if there are delays in meeting course requirements, such as completing a placement.
Mandatory student checks
Any unit which contains work integrated learning, a community placement or interaction with the community may require a police check, Working with Children Check or other check.
Workload
Students can expect to participate in a range of teaching activities each week. This could include lectures, seminars, field trips, practicals and online interaction. Individual unit details in the course structure provide specific information relating to teaching activities in each unit. Students also need to study and complete assessment tasks in their own time.
Participation requirements
Students are required to complete units in Trimester 3.
Students enrolled at the Geelong Waurn Ponds Campus will be required to undertake some of their practical learning experiences at the Queenscliff Marine Science Centre.
Placement can occur at any time, including during standard holiday breaks. Learn about key dates at Deakin.
Elective units may be selected that include compulsory placements, work-based training, community-based learning or collaborative research training arrangements.
Reasonable adjustments to participation and other course requirements will be made for students with a disability. More information available at Disability support services.
Work experience
You’ll gain practical experience through a placement of at least 80 hours at a course-related host organisation. This provides you with opportunities for workplace visits, field trips and industry learning, helping you build valuable professional networks and gain insight into your potential career outcomes. Explore the SEBE WIL program .
Elective units may also provide additional opportunities for Work Integrated Learning experiences.
Entry requirements
Selection is based on a holistic consideration of your academic merit, work experience, likelihood of success, availability of places, participation requirements, regulatory requirements, and individual circumstances. You will need to meet the minimum academic and English language proficiency requirements to be considered for selection, but this does not guarantee admission.
A combination of qualifications and experience may be deemed equivalent to minimum academic requirements.
If you don't meet the academic entry requirements as outlined in the tabs below, or haven't completed Year 12, or don't hold any relevant qualifications, the STAT (Skills for Tertiary Admissions Test) Multiple Choice (MC) may be an option for you to meet course entry requirements.
Academic requirements
If you’re currently studying Year 12, or completed Year 12 in the last two years, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
Year 12 prerequisite subjects
- Units 3 and 4: a study score of at least 25 in English EAL (English as an Additional Language) or at least 20 in English other than EAL
ATAR
- Senior Secondary Certificate of Education with an unadjusted ATAR of at least 50 or equivalent
If you have undertaken higher education studies after secondary schooling, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- successful completion of at least two bachelor level or above units (AQF Level 7 or equivalent)
If you have undertaken any Vocational Education and Training (VET) study after secondary school, you will need to meet at least one of following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- completion of a certificate IV or higher in a related discipline
- completion of a diploma or higher in any discipline
- at least 50% completion of a diploma or higher in a related discipline
If you finished Year 12 more than three years ago, or did not finish Year 12, and have not undertaken any further study, you may be considered for admission to this degree based on your work, volunteer and/or life experience.
Submit a personal statement outlining your motivation to study, previous education and employment history, and how this course can assist your career aspirations or progression. Think of it as a job application cover letter – it should be relevant and demonstrate your commitment and interest in this course or study area.
Find the entry requirement for your country?International entry score
We are comparing your country’s qualification to the Australian ATAR score. Meeting this score does not guarantee admission into a course. Admission is subject to meeting all criteria, including English language requirements.
To meet the English language proficiency requirements of this course, you will need to demonstrate at least one of the following:
- Victorian Certificate of Education (VCE) English Units 3 and 4: Study score of 25 in English as an Additional Language (EAL) or 20 in any other English
- IELTS overall score of 6.0 (with no band score less than 6.0) or equivalent
- other evidence of English language proficiency (learn more about other ways to satisfy the requirements)
Subject adjustment
A study score of 30 in any English, any Mathematics or any Science equals 2 aggregate points per study. Overall maximum of 10 points.
Access and equity
Equity schemes and scholarships, formerly known as Special Entry Access Schemes (SEAS), enable Deakin to consider any disadvantaged circumstances you may have experienced and how these have impacted your studies. Equity schemes help us identify whether you are from an under-represented group when making selection decisions for certain courses. It's important to note that participation in an equity scheme does not exempt you from meeting the standard course entry requirements. Learn more about Deakin's equity schemes and scholarships.
Learn more about Deakin courses and how we compare to other universities when it comes to the quality of our teaching and learning. We're also committed to admissions transparency. Read about our first intake of 2025 students (PDF, 812KB) – their average ATARs, whether they had any previous higher education experience and more.
Not sure if you can get into Deakin? Discover the different entry pathways we offer and study options available to you, no matter your ATAR or education history.
Recognition of prior learning
If you have completed previous studies which you believe may reduce the number of units you have to complete at Deakin, indicate in the appropriate section on your application that you wish to be considered for Recognition of prior learning. You will need to provide a certified copy of your previous course details so your credit can be determined. If you are eligible, your offer letter will then contain information about your Recognition of prior learning.
Your Recognition of prior learning is formally approved prior to your enrolment at Deakin during the Enrolment and Orientation Program. You must bring original documents relating to your previous study so that this approval can occur.
You can also refer to the recognition of prior learning (RPL) system which outlines the credit that may be granted towards a Deakin University degree.
Fees and scholarships
Fee information
Estimated tuition fee - full-fee paying place
$42,400 for 1 yr full-time AUD
Learn more about fees and your options for paying.
The tuition fees you pay are determined by the course you are enrolled in. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is provided as a guide only and represents the typical first-year tuition fees for students enrolled in this course. The cost will vary depending on the units you choose, your study load, the length of your course and any approved Recognition of prior learning you have.
Each unit you enrol in has a credit point value. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is calculated by adding together eight credit points of a typical combination of units for this course. Eight credit points is used as it represents a typical full-time enrolment load for a year.
You can find the credit point value of each unit under the Unit Description by searching for the unit in the handbook.
Learn more about international student fees.
Scholarship options
Deakin scholarships recognise your hard work and achievements. Our support can ease the financial pressure of studying in Australia so you stay focused on your success. Numbers are limited, so apply early for the best chance.
Apply now
Apply directly to Deakin
Applications can be made directly to the University through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's International Student Application Service.
We recommend engaging with a Deakin Authorised Agent who can assist you with the process and submit the application.
Apply through VTAC
If you are an international student completing an Australian Year 12 in Australia or overseas, you must submit an application through the Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre (VTAC). In addition, you may also apply directly to Deakin through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's international student application service.
Need more information on how to apply?
For information on the application process, including required documents and important dates, visit the How to apply webpage.
If you need assistance, please contact us.
Pathways
Articulated courses:
Career outcomes
As a marine scientist, you will develop multidisciplinary skills that open up diverse career opportunities in both research and applied fields. These can be in areas such as oceanography, marine biochemistry and biotechnology, fisheries, remote sensing, marine biology and ecology, microbiology and genomics, mathematics or economics. Further postgraduate studies, including research training, can lead to students becoming research scientists in a specific field of marine science.
Deakin's graduate learning outcomes describe the knowledge and capabilities graduates can demonstrate at the completion of their course. These outcomes mean that regardless of the Deakin course you undertake, you can rest assured your degree will teach you the skills and professional attributes that employers value. They'll set you up to learn and work effectively in the future.
| Deakin Graduate Learning Outcomes | Course Learning Outcomes |
|---|---|
| Discipline-specific knowledge and capabilities | Contribute scientific predictions, observations, innovation and knowledge towards a world-wide, sustainable blue economy by integrating and applying well-developed, multidisciplinary knowledge in the marine science field. Apply technical capabilities, including emerging marine technology and innovation and use them in a range of problem solving activities in a professional and/or academic setting within the field of marine science. |
| Communication | Use appropriate scientific language and formats including written, visual, oral and graphical forms to communicate and engage with a broad spectrum of society, such as those in industry, policy, regulation and the community. Generate, analyse and present key information in a professional manner with evidence from local and global contributions and contexts. |
| Digital literacy | Use well developed technical skills and judgement to retrieve, analyse, synthesise and evaluate information using a variety of tools and techniques. Apply quantitative skills in marine science using software programs associated with computational science and system dynamics. |
| Critical thinking | Critically evaluate scientific information from multiple sources and use scientific methods and frameworks to structure and plan observations, experimentation, fieldwork investigations. Use analytical thinking and judgement to evaluate, synthesise and generate an integrated knowledge, formulate hypotheses and test them against evidence-based scientific concepts and principles in the field of marine science. |
| Problem solving | Apply traditional, emerging and innovative approaches and information to scope and solve real world (authentic) problems in marine science. Evaluate scientific methodologies, hypotheses, laws, facts and principles to create solutions for authentic marine science issues taking in account human dimensions of conservation management. |
| Self-management | Take personal, professional and social responsibility within changing professional science contexts to develop autonomy as learners and evaluate own performance. Work autonomously, responsibly and safely to solve unstructured problems and actively apply knowledge of regulatory frameworks and scientific methodologies to make informed choices. |
| Teamwork | Work in various team roles and also work collaboratively in a team to contribute towards achieving team goals. Apply interpersonal skills to interact and collaborate effectively to enhance outcomes in diverse professional, social and cultural contexts. |
| Global citizenship | Recognise the role, relevance and ethical implications of marine science in society and apply cultural, economic and social awareness, including those of indigenous people. Adopt, appreciate and respect scientific morals and ethics, including working with animals. |
*Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.