Course overview
Explore the entire lifecycle of data and develop a deep understanding of how information is transformed into insights that drive strategic business decisions. During the Bachelor of Data Science (Honours), you will have the opportunity to complete a professional placement or work in teams with an industry partner to solve authentic business challenges using real-world data sets. Hone your skills through focused studies in your area of interest and complete a research project in your final year.
Propel yourself into the thriving field of data science. You will study the latest data science trends, insights and emerging topics to ensure you graduate with a highly relevant skill set that is sought after by employers across the globe. Explore different analytical methods, tools and techniques as you learn key concepts and deep dive into advanced topics in machine learning, AI and predictive analytics.
Want to hone your analytical skills for a rewarding career in data science?
Current Deakin students
To access your official course details for the year you started your degree, please visit the handbook
- Award granted
- Bachelor of Data Science (Honours)
- Year
2026 course information
- VTAC code
- 1400511373 - Burwood (Melbourne), International full-fee paying place
- Deakin code
- S479
- CRICOS code?Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students
- 109275A Burwood (Melbourne)
- Level
- Undergraduate
- Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) recognition
The award conferred upon completion is recognised in the Australian Qualifications Framework at Level 8
#1 Victorian uni for graduate employment
Choose a Deakin degree for vital industry experience on placements, hands-on learning in world-class facilities and guidance from industry-expert academics. We offer lifetime career support and are the #1 Victorian university for graduate employment.
Course structure
To complete the Bachelor of Data Science (Honours), you must pass 32 credit points. This includes:
- DAI001 Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0-credit-point compulsory unit) in your first study period
- STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit-point compulsory unit)
- 17 credit points of core units
- 3 credit points of data science capstone units
- 4 credit points of data science research training capstone units
- 8 credit points which may comprise of:
- 2 minors (8 credit points)
- 1 minor (4 credit points) and 4 credit points of open elective units
- a maximum of 10 credit points at level 1
- a minimum of 10 credit points at level 3 or above.
Most units are equal to one credit point. As a full-time student you will study four credit points per trimester and usually undertake two trimesters per year.
All students are required to meet the University's academic progress and conduct requirements.
17
Core units
+
7
Capstone units
+
8
Minor/Elective units
=
32
Total
Year 1 - Trimester 1
Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0 credit points)
Career Tools for Employability (0 credit points)
Computer Systems
Discrete Mathematics
Introduction to Data Science and Artificial Intelligence
Introduction to Programming
Year 1 - Trimester 2
Database Fundamentals
Introduction to Statistics and Data Analysis
Object-Oriented Development
Linear Algebra for Data Analysis
Year 2 - Trimester 1
Computer Networks and Communication
Data Wrangling
Data Structures and Algorithms
Plus 1 minor or open elective unit (1 credit point)
Year 2 - Trimester 2
Professional Practice in Information Technology #
Feature Generation and Engineering
Data Capture Technologies
Plus 1 minor or open elective unit (1 credit point)
Year 3 - Trimester 1
Natural Language Processing
Machine Learning
Team Project (A) - Project Management and Practices ^ (capstone)
Plus 1 minor or open elective unit (1 credit point)
Year 3 - Trimester 2
Deep Learning
Plus 1 minor or open elective unit (1 credit point)
Plus 2 credit points from the following capstone options:
Team Project (B) - Execution and Delivery ^ (capstone)
IT Placements and Industry Experience ^+ (capstone)
OR
Professional Practice (2 credit points)^+ (capstone)
Year 4 - Trimester 1
Research Techniques and Applications (2 credit points) (research training capstone)^
Plus 2 open electives or minor units (2 credit points)
Year 4 - Trimester 2
2 open electives or minor units (2 credit points)
Plus two (2) credit points from the following research training capstone options:
Research Project (2 credit points)^ (research training capstone)
OR
Research Project (Advanced) (2 credit points)^* (research training capstone)
^ Offered in Trimester 1, Trimester 2 and Trimester 3
# Corequisite of STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit point compulsory unit)
+ Students must have completed STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit point compulsory unit) and SIT223 Professional Practice in Information Technology.
* Entry to SIT746 is subject to specific unit entry requirements.
It is important to ensure your course plan meets the course rules detailed above. Students should contact Student Central for assistance with course planning, choosing the right units and understanding course rules.
Select from a range of elective units offered across many courses. In some cases you may even be able to choose elective units from a completely different discipline area (subject to meeting unit requirements).
Refer to the details of each minor sequence for availability.
- Cloud Technologies
- Cyber Security
- Cyber Security Analytics
- Education
- Embedded Systems
- Finance
- Full Stack Development
- Health Analytics
- Human Resource Management
- Information Technologies Research
- Marketing
- Psychology
- Retail Management
- Security Management
- Sports Analytics
- Sustainability and Environmental Science
- Virtual and Augmented Reality
Students wishing to complete two minor sequences in the Bachelor of Data Science (Honours) cannot count more than 2 units in common for both minor sequences.
Intakes by location
The availability of a course varies across locations and intakes. This means that a course offered in Trimester 1 may not be offered in the same location for Trimester 2 or 3. Check each intake for up-to-date information on when and where you can commence your studies.
- Start date: March
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Online
- Start date: July
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Online
Deakin splits the academic year into three terms, known as trimesters. Most students usually undertake two trimesters each year (March-June, July-November).
CHOOSE DEAKIN, THE #1 VICTORIAN UNIVERSITY FOR COURSE SATISFACTION
Equipment requirements
The learning experiences and assessment activities within this course require that students have access to a range of technologies beyond a desktop computer or laptop. Students will be required to purchase minor equipment, such as small single board computers, microcontrollers and sensors, which will be used within a range of units in this course. This equipment is also usable by the student beyond their studies. Equipment requirements and details of suppliers will be provided on a per-unit basis. The indicative cost of this equipment for this course is AUD$500.
For information regarding hardware and software requirements, please refer to the Bring your own device (BYOD) guidelines via the School of Information Technology website in addition to the individual unit outlines in the Handbook.
Course duration
You may be able to study available units in the optional third trimester to fast-track your degree, however your course duration may be extended if there are delays in meeting course requirements, such as completing a placement.
Mandatory student checks
Any unit which contains work integrated learning, a community placement or interaction with the community may require a police check, Working with Children Check or other check.
Workload
You can expect to participate in a range of teaching activities each week. This could include classes, seminars, practicals and online interaction. You can refer to the individual unit details in the course structure for more information. You will also need to study and complete assessment tasks in your own time.
Participation requirements
Placement can occur at any time, including during standard holiday breaks. Learn about key dates at Deakin.
Elective units may be selected that include compulsory placements, work-based training, community-based learning or collaborative research training arrangements.
Reasonable adjustments to participation and other course requirements will be made for students with a disability. More information available at Disability support services.
Work experience
This course includes a compulsory work placement with an approved host organisation to take your learning beyond the classroom and prepare you to be work and career ready. Work Integrated Learning (WIL) units offered in this course provide you with the opportunity to develop your professional networks and work practices while completing your degree.
Elective units may also provide additional opportunities for work integrated learning experiences.
For more information visit SEBE Work Integrated Learning.
Entry requirements
Selection is based on a holistic consideration of your academic merit, work experience, likelihood of success, availability of places, participation requirements, regulatory requirements, and individual circumstances. You will need to meet the minimum academic and English language proficiency requirements to be considered for selection, but this does not guarantee admission.
A combination of qualifications and experience may be deemed equivalent to minimum academic requirements.
If you don't meet the academic entry requirements as outlined in the tabs below, or haven't completed Year 12, or don't hold any relevant qualifications, the STAT (Skills for Tertiary Admissions Test) Multiple Choice (MC) may be an option for you to meet course entry requirements.
Academic requirements
If you’re currently studying Year 12, or completed Year 12 in the last two years, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
Year 12 prerequisite subjects
- Units 3 and 4: a study score of at least 25 in English EAL (English as an Additional Language) or at least 20 in English other than EAL
ATAR
- Senior Secondary Certificate of Education with an unadjusted ATAR of at least 50 or equivalent
If you have undertaken higher education studies after secondary schooling, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- successful completion of at least two bachelor level or above units (AQF Level 7 or equivalent) with a minimum WAM of 70 or equivalent
If you have undertaken any Vocational Education and Training (VET) study after secondary school, you will need to meet at least one of following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- completion of a certificate IV or higher in a related discipline
- completion of a diploma or higher in any discipline
- at least 50% completion of a diploma or higher in a related discipline
If you finished Year 12 more than three years ago, or did not finish Year 12, and haven't undertaken any further study, you may be considered for admission to this degree based on your work, volunteer and/or life experience.
Submit a personal statement outlining your motivation to study, previous education and employment history, and how this course can assist your career aspirations or progression. Think of it as a job application cover letter - it should be relevant and demonstrate your commitment and interest in this course or study area.
Find the entry requirement for your country?International entry score
We are comparing your country’s qualification to the Australian ATAR score. Meeting this score does not guarantee admission into a course. Admission is subject to meeting all criteria, including English language requirements.
To meet the English language proficiency requirements of this course, you will need to demonstrate at least one of the following:
- Victorian Certificate of Education (VCE) English Units 3 and 4: Study score of 25 in English as an Additional Language (EAL) or 20 in any other English
- IELTS overall score of 6.0 (with no band score less than 6.0) or equivalent
- other evidence of English language proficiency (learn more about other ways to satisfy the requirements)
Access and equity
Equity schemes and scholarships, formerly known as Special Entry Access Schemes (SEAS), enable Deakin to consider any disadvantaged circumstances you may have experienced and how these have impacted your studies. Equity schemes help us identify whether you are from an under-represented group when making selection decisions for certain courses. It's important to note that participation in an equity scheme does not exempt you from meeting the standard course entry requirements. Learn more about Deakin's equity schemes and scholarships.
Learn more about Deakin courses and how we compare to other universities when it comes to the quality of our teaching and learning. We're also committed to admissions transparency. Read about our first intake of 2025 students (PDF, 812KB) – their average ATARs, whether they had any previous higher education experience and more.
Not sure if you can get into Deakin? Discover the different entry pathways we offer and study options available to you, no matter your ATAR or education history.
Recognition of prior learning
If you have completed previous studies which you believe may reduce the number of units you have to complete at Deakin, indicate in the appropriate section on your application that you wish to be considered for Recognition of prior learning. You will need to provide a certified copy of your previous course details so your credit can be determined. If you are eligible, your offer letter will then contain information about your Recognition of prior learning.
Your Recognition of prior learning is formally approved prior to your enrolment at Deakin during the Enrolment and Orientation Program. You must bring original documents relating to your previous study so that this approval can occur.
You can also refer to the recognition of prior learning (RPL) system which outlines the credit that may be granted towards a Deakin University degree.
Fees and scholarships
Fee information
Estimated tuition fee - full-fee paying place
$42,000 for 1 yr full-time AUD
Learn more about fees and your options for paying.
The tuition fees you pay are determined by the course you are enrolled in. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is provided as a guide only and represents the typical first-year tuition fees for students enrolled in this course. The cost will vary depending on the units you choose, your study load, the length of your course and any approved Recognition of prior learning you have.
Each unit you enrol in has a credit point value. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is calculated by adding together eight credit points of a typical combination of units for this course. Eight credit points is used as it represents a typical full-time enrolment load for a year.
You can find the credit point value of each unit under the Unit Description by searching for the unit in the handbook.
Learn more about international student fees.
Scholarship options
Deakin scholarships recognise your hard work and achievements. Our support can ease the financial pressure of studying in Australia so you stay focused on your success. Numbers are limited, so apply early for the best chance.
Apply now
Apply directly to Deakin
Applications can be made directly to the University through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's International Student Application Service.
We recommend engaging with a Deakin Authorised Agent who can assist you with the process and submit the application.
Apply through VTAC
If you are an international student completing an Australian Year 12 in Australia or overseas, you must submit an application through the Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre (VTAC). In addition, you may also apply directly to Deakin through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's international student application service.
Need more information on how to apply?
For information on the application process, including required documents and important dates, visit the How to apply webpage.
If you need assistance, please contact us.
Pathways
Further study options
The Bachelor of Data Science (Honours) may be used as further study pathways into a postgraduate preservice teaching qualification through the Master of Applied Learning and Teaching and the Master of Teaching, which has options for Primary and Secondary teaching.
A Bachelor of Data Science (Honours) may also provide you with the opportunity to pursue a research pathway to Higher Degree by Research.Alternate exits
Career outcomes
According to the World Economic Forum’s ‘Future of Jobs Report 2025’, big data specialists top the list of the fastest-growing roles globally. Data warehousing specialists, along with data analysts and scientists, also rank within the top 12. This course provides you with the cutting-edge knowledge and hands-on experience to stand out in this booming industry.
As a graduate, you will have the skills, knowledge and industry connections to build a varied and sustainable career as a data analyst, data scientist, business strategist, data engineer, data architect, data visualisation specialist, information analyst or reporting analyst in the public and private sectors. Depending on your chosen industry or sector, you could be optimising digital marketing campaigns, developing new and innovative products and services, predicting customer sales patterns, or increasing productivity in areas such as sales or supply chain management.
Graduates from the Bachelor of Data Science (Honours) are highly sought after by employers for their investigative, exploratory and lateral-thinking approach to complex data challenges. By undertaking a focused research project in your final year of study, you will acquire advanced technical expertise in your chosen specialisation. Plus, you will have the skills to become a creative, solutions-driven professional in the dynamic and ever-evolving field of data science.
Professional recognition
The Bachelor of Data Science (Honours) is professionally accredited with the Australian Computer Society (ACS). This course is recognised internationally for entry to professional practice by other accrediting bodies through the Seoul Accord.
Deakin's graduate learning outcomes describe the knowledge and capabilities graduates can demonstrate at the completion of their course. These outcomes mean that regardless of the Deakin course you undertake, you can rest assured your degree will teach you the skills and professional attributes that employers value. They'll set you up to learn and work effectively in the future.
| Deakin Graduate Learning Outcomes | Course Learning Outcomes |
|---|---|
| Discipline-specific knowledge and capabilities | Develop a coherent and advanced knowledge of data science, with detailed knowledge of the data analytics principles and approaches and knowledge, skills, tools, and methodologies for professional practice and research. |
| Communication | Communicate in a professional context incorporating research-driven perspective to inform, explain and drive sustainable innovation through data science, utilising a range of verbal, graphical and written methods, recognising the needs of diverse audiences. |
| Digital literacy | Identify, select and use digital technologies, platforms, frameworks, and tools from the field of data science to generate, manage, process and share digital resources for research and practice. |
| Critical thinking | Critically analyse information provided to inform decision making and evaluation of plans and solutions associated with research and practice in data science. |
| Problem solving | Apply cognitive, technical, and creative skills from data science to understand requirements and design, implement, operate, and evaluate innovative solutions to real-world and ill-defined computing problems. |
| Self-management | Work independently to apply knowledge and skills to new situations in research and professional practice and/or further learning in the field of data science with adaptability, autonomy, responsibility, and personal accountability for actions as a practitioner and a learner. |
| Teamwork | Work independently and collaboratively to achieve team goals, contributing knowledge and skills from data science practice and research to advance the teams objectives, employing effective teamwork practices and principles, and comprehending distinct workplace roles and their functions. |
| Global citizenship | Apply professional and ethical standards and accountability in research and practice in the field of data science, and engage openly and respectfully with diverse communities and cultures. |
*Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.