Course overview
Out-earn other arts grads in Victoria with a Deakin arts degree*. Now is your time to unlock your potential, creativity and realise your purpose.
Choosing arts at Deakin means backing your future: one in four Deakin arts graduates hold leadership or managerial roles and one in 10 are chief executives or managing directors. A Deakin arts degree launches careers with purpose, adaptability and global reach.
With us, you’ll be empowered to explore a diverse range of majors and minors in a way that suits you – from Indigenous studies and digital cultures to history, media and communication, education and more. Personalise your degree with topics that you care about and choose to fulfill your potential in a career that you love.
You will graduate with skills employers crave: exceptional communication, critical thinking, problem-solving and leadership. This is why two-thirds of Australia’s workforce have humanities and social sciences degrees, as do two in three CEOs of ASX200 listed companies^.
Want to find your purpose and develop the critical skills to make an impact?
Current Deakin students
To access your official course details for the year you started your degree, please visit the handbook
- Award granted
- Bachelor of Arts
- Year
2026 course information
- VTAC code
- 1400314103 - Waurn Ponds (Geelong), International full-fee paying place
1400514103 - Burwood (Melbourne), International full-fee paying place - Deakin code
- A310
- CRICOS code?Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students
- 109270F Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Level
- Undergraduate
- Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) recognition
The award conferred upon completion is recognised in the Australian Qualifications Framework at Level 7
GAIN VITAL INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE AT THE #1 VICTORIAN UNI FOR GRADUATE EMPLOYMENT
Course structure
To complete the Bachelor of Arts, you must pass 24 credit points. This includes:
- DAI001 Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0-credit-point compulsory unit) in your first study period
- Employability sequence (3 credit points)
- one of:
- 2 arts majors (8 credit points each)
- 1 arts major (8 credit points), plus 1 arts minor (4 credit points)
- remaining credit points which may comprise:
- 1 additional major
- 1 additional minor
- open elective units
- a combination of the above
- a maximum of 10 credit points at level 1
- a minimum of 6 credit points at level 3
- a maximum of 8 credit points taken outside the Faculty of Arts and Education.
Most units are equal to one credit point. As a full-time student you will study four credit points per trimester and usually undertake two trimesters per year.
All students are required to meet the University's academic progress and conduct requirements.
We offer a unit that is specifically designed to help students with the transition to university study:
New students are encouraged to enrol in this unit in their first year.
Your selection of Major/s, Minor/s, and electives will enable you to design a unique Bachelor of Arts which best suits your needs.
- Major: Your choice of major/s will develop your expertise in particular area/s of study. Each of our majors are carefully scaffolded to give you a comprehensive understanding of your chosen area of study. Within each major sequence, you will also have the opportunity to develop the knowledge and skills that will prepare you for your future careers
- Minor: If you choose to undertake a minor you will develop additional knowledge in another area of study. Students will often choose minors that complement their major/s, or use them to discover and pursue their interests
- Electives: These are units that you may select which interest you or support your career development. By giving you up to 9 electives to choose from, over the 3 levels, the Bachelor of Arts is all about you and your developing interests
3
Employability units
+
16
Major or Minor units
+
5
Elective units
=
24
Total
Compulsory 0-credit point module
To be completed in the first trimester of study:
Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin
Employability sequence
Your Future Direction
Plus 1 credit point from:
Leadership and Transformation
Communication and Persuasive Presentation
Entrepreneurial Mindset
Expand Your Experience
Plus 1 credit point from:
Internship
Enhance Your Experience
Your Professional Story
A major or minor sequence is a group of units in a particular area of study taken over the three levels of your course. Each unit is usually worth 1 credit point.
A major sequence is made up of 8 credit points, and a minor sequence is made of 4 credit points.
Please check the rules of each major and minor sequence to see which units you need to complete to achieve the required credit points.
Students enrolled in other courses and faculties may take an Arts major sequence
(8 credit points), minor sequence (4 credit points) or individual electives from these discipline areas, subject to meeting the prerequisites.
| Area of Study | Type of sequence | Availability |
| Animation | Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Online |
| Anthropology | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| Arabic | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Online |
| Chinese | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Online |
| Criminology | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| Digital cultures | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Online |
| Design thinking | Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| Education | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Online |
| English - Children's literature | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| English - Creative writing | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| English - Literature | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| Film and television studies | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Online |
| Gender and sexuality studies | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| Global challenges | Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| History | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| Indigenous studies | Major and Minor | Online |
| Indonesian | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Online |
| International relations | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| Media and communication | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| Media studies | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Online |
| Middle east studies | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Online |
| Performing arts | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne) |
| Philosophy | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| Politics and policy studies | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| Public relations studies | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| Religious studies | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| Social media | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| Sociology | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| Spanish | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Online |
| Sport and society | Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| Sport journalism | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| Strategic advertising | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Online |
| UX* Design (*UX refers to User Experience) | Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| Visual arts and photography | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne) |
| Visual communication design | Major and Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
| Web design | Minor | Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong), Online |
Interested in majoring in psychology? Consider a Bachelor of Arts (Psychology)
Intakes by location
The availability of a course varies across locations and intakes. This means that a course offered in Trimester 1 may not be offered in the same location for Trimester 2 or 3. Check each intake for up-to-date information on when and where you can commence your studies.
- Start date: March
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Online
- Start date: July
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Online
- Start date: November
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Online
Deakin splits the academic year into three terms, known as trimesters. Most students usually undertake two trimesters each year (March-June, July-November).
More skills, more careers
Earn two degrees, faster, at the #1 Victorian university for graduate employment. With a double degree, you can combine an arts degree with information technology, laws, science, international relations, teaching, business, commerce or health sciences. Save time, reduce costs and unlock more career opportunities.
You may be able to study available units in the optional third trimester to fast-track your degree, however your course duration may be extended if there are delays in meeting course requirements, such as completing a placement.
Mandatory student checks
Any unit which contains work integrated learning, a community placement or interaction with the community may require a police check, Working with Children Check or other check.
Participation requirements
Reasonable adjustments to participation and other course requirements will be made for students with a disability. More information available at Disability support services.
Entry requirements
Selection is based on a holistic consideration of your academic merit, work experience, likelihood of success, availability of places, participation requirements, regulatory requirements, and individual circumstances. You will need to meet the minimum academic and English language proficiency requirements to be considered for selection, but this does not guarantee admission.
A combination of qualifications and experience may be deemed equivalent to minimum academic requirements.
If you don't meet the academic entry requirements as outlined in the tabs below, or haven't completed Year 12, or don't hold any relevant qualifications, the STAT (Skills for Tertiary Admissions Test) Multiple Choice (MC) may be an option for you to meet course entry requirements.
Academic requirements
If you’re currently studying Year 12, or completed Year 12 in the last two years, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
Year 12 prerequisite subjects
- Units 3 and 4: a study score of at least 25 in English EAL (English as an Additional Language) or at least 20 in English other than EAL
ATAR
- Senior Secondary Certificate of Education with an unadjusted ATAR of at least 50 or equivalent
If you have undertaken higher education studies after secondary schooling, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- successful completion of at least two bachelor level or above units (AQF Level 7 or equivalent)
If you have undertaken any Vocational Education and Training (VET) study after secondary school, you will need to meet at least one of following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- completion of a certificate IV or higher in a related discipline
- completion of a diploma or higher in any discipline
- at least 50% completion of a diploma or higher in a related discipline
If you finished Year 12 more than three years ago, or did not finish Year 12, and have not undertaken any further study, you may be considered for admission to this degree based on your work, volunteer and/or life experience.
Submit a personal statement outlining your motivation to study, previous education and employment history, and how this course can assist your career aspirations or progression. Think of it as a job application cover letter – it should be relevant and demonstrate your commitment and interest in this course or study area.
Find the entry requirement for your country?International entry score
We are comparing your country’s qualification to the Australian ATAR score. Meeting this score does not guarantee admission into a course. Admission is subject to meeting all criteria, including English language requirements.
To meet the English language proficiency requirements of this course, you will need to demonstrate at least one of the following:
- Victorian Certificate of Education (VCE) English Units 3 and 4: Study score of 25 in English as an Additional Language (EAL) or 20 in any other English
- IELTS overall score of 6.0 (with no band score less than 6.0) or equivalent
- other evidence of English language proficiency (learn more about other ways to satisfy the requirements)
Learn more about Deakin courses and how we compare to other universities when it comes to the quality of our teaching and learning. We're also committed to admissions transparency. Read about our first intake of 2025 students (PDF, 812KB) – their average ATARs, whether they had any previous higher education experience and more.
Not sure if you can get into Deakin? Discover the different entry pathways we offer and study options available to you, no matter your ATAR or education history.
Online studies
Deakin offers many courses which can be studied by distance education overseas.
However, international students living in Australia on a student visa, in each compulsory trimester (that is, Trimesters 1 and 2), must enrol in at least one unit that is offered as a Campus located unit and can, in addition enrol in units offered online. International students may undertake a maximum of up to one third (or equivalent) of their study as online study. Please note enrolment in one face to face unit in compulsory study periods is only allowed if the student is completing their final unit of study and will not exceed maximum one third (or equivalent) online requirement.
Recognition of prior learning
If you have completed previous studies which you believe may reduce the number of units you have to complete at Deakin, indicate in the appropriate section on your application that you wish to be considered for credit transfer. You will need to provide a certified copy of your previous course details so your credit can be determined. If you are eligible, your offer letter will then contain information about your credit transfer.
Your credit transfer is formally approved prior to your enrolment at Deakin during the Enrolment and Orientation Program. You must bring original documents relating to your previous study so that this approval can occur.
You can also refer to the recognition of prior learning (RPL) system which outlines the credit that may be granted towards a Deakin University degree.
Fees and scholarships
Fee information
Estimated tuition fee - full-fee paying place
$37,400 for 1 yr full-time AUD
Learn more about fees and your options for paying.
The tuition fees you pay are determined by the course you are enrolled in. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is provided as a guide only and represents the typical first-year tuition fees for students enrolled in this course. The cost will vary depending on the units you choose, your study load, the length of your course and any approved Recognition of prior learning you have.
Each unit you enrol in has a credit point value. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is calculated by adding together eight credit points of a typical combination of units for this course. Eight credit points is used as it represents a typical full-time enrolment load for a year.
You can find the credit point value of each unit under the Unit Description by searching for the unit in the handbook.
Learn more about international student fees.
Scholarship options
Deakin scholarships recognise your hard work and achievements. Our support can ease the financial pressure of studying in Australia so you stay focused on your success. Numbers are limited, so apply early for the best chance.
Apply now
Apply directly to Deakin
Applications can be made directly to the University through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's International Student Application Service.
We recommend engaging with a Deakin Authorised Agent who can assist you with the process and submit the application.
Apply through VTAC
If you are an international student completing an Australian Year 12 in Australia or overseas, you must submit an application through the Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre (VTAC). In addition, you may also apply directly to Deakin through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's international student application service.
Need more information on how to apply?
For information on the application process, including required documents and important dates, visit the How to apply webpage.
If you need assistance, please contact us.
Pathways
Don’t quite meet the entry requirements for this course? The Associate Degree of Arts (A250) can be used as a guaranteed entry pathway into the Bachelor of Arts and counts as credit towards your first year of study*. You’ll gain a solid foundation of relevant knowledge and be ready to transition seamlessly into your goal degree.
Upon completing your Bachelor of Arts, you are eligible for entry into a range of specialist masters degrees which will provide opportunities for you to become a highly-skilled professional, capable of rapid career development. Students with a Bachelor of Arts may be eligible for credit in these degrees, giving you a head start and allowing you to build on your undergraduate degree in areas such as:
The Humanities and Social Sciences - with Masters offered in Criminology, Cultural Heritage and Museum Studies, Humanitarianism and Development, International Relations and Politics and Policy
Communication and Creative Arts - with Masters offered in Communication, Creative Arts, and Writing and Literature
Education - the Bachelor of Arts articulates into a postgraduate preservice teaching qualification through either the Master of Teaching (Primary) or Master of Teaching (Secondary).
Further Education pathway on offer: Education (Specialist Inclusive Education)
Research pathways - A Bachelor of Arts may also lead to a Bachelor of Arts (Honours), Bachelor of Communication and Creative Arts (Honours), or even a Higher Degree by Research.
*Specific units of study must be completed within A250 for full credit to be granted. We recommend speaking with one of our student advisers before selecting your units.
Early Exit Option
Students enrolled in the Bachelor of Arts are able to exit early through the Diploma of Arts (A215). The Diploma of Arts recognises the foundational knowledge and skills in a broad range of study areas in the humanities, social sciences, creative arts, communications and languages. It provides a basic for pursuing further pathways into future undergraduate university studies.
To be eligible to exit with a Diploma of Arts, students must have completed and passed 8 credit points, including a minimum of 6 credit points at level 1 from the Bachelor of Arts.
Articulated courses:
Career outcomes
In an ever-changing complex world, society needs bright and agile minds to help us understand the human experience and impact our collective future for the better. Students who study humanities and social sciences are uniquely equipped to shed light on critical issues with nuance and sensitivity. The mastery of critical thinking, communication and problem-solving skills is needed for future leaders and is highly sought-after by employers across a vast spectrum of industries.
Deakin is the #1 Victorian university for graduate employment.** With us you can step-into your future with confidence. You will have the skills, knowledge and professional networks to start your career anywhere in the world and thrive in a range of industries.
Affect change in fields that matter, spanning environmental, social, political or creative realms.
You will curate your future career from day one, personalising your degree so that it fully aligns with your unique interests and values. Graduate ready to hit the ground running with the unique and competitive skill sets required for specific careers across a variety of sectors, including in fields like:
- criminology, sociology and policy
- culture and creative arts
- education
- government and NGOs
- language and international relations
- media, writing and communication
At Deakin, you will feel supported as you shape your future career, whether you want to work in a specific sector or industry, an emerging job of the future or even create a dream career that might not yet exist – a world of opportunity awaits.
For more information go to DeakinTALENT.
**Australian Graduate Survey 2010–2015, Graduate Outcomes Survey 2016–2023, Quality Indicators for Learning and Teaching (QILT). The #1 graduate employment is based on overall employment for domestic undergraduates of Victorian universities, 4–6 months after course completion, with an equal overall employment rate with Monash University.
Professional recognition
Depending on your specialisation, certain majors are accredited by relevant bodies.
If you choose public relations, you will study subjects accredited by the Public Relations Institute of Australia. Our design-related units are also recognised by the Design Institute of Australia.
Deakin's graduate learning outcomes describe the knowledge and capabilities graduates can demonstrate at the completion of their course. These outcomes mean that regardless of the Deakin course you undertake, you can rest assured your degree will teach you the skills and professional attributes that employers value. They'll set you up to learn and work effectively in the future.
| Deakin Graduate Learning Outcomes | Course Learning Outcomes |
|---|---|
| Discipline-specific knowledge and capabilities | Critically analyse and synthesise a broad and coherent body of knowledge in one or more Arts disciplines, and apply specialised conceptual understanding to professional practice and/or scholarship. |
| Communication | Articulate complex ideas using oral, written and digital communication skills and create professional and /or scholarly materials that effectively impart knowledge and research findings to diverse audiences. |
| Digital literacy | Critically evaluate the effectiveness and ethical implications of digital technologies and apply them responsibly in the creation of research and analysis that is both authentic and accountable |
| Critical thinking | Analyse, synthesise and evaluate, complex and wide-ranging knowledge and information to create logical judgements and informed perspectives in a range of professional and academic contexts. |
| Problem solving | Integrate cognitive, methodological, and creative skills to generate and communicate innovative approaches to unpredictable and complex problems |
| Self-management | Plan and execute actions with a high level of responsibility, accountability, and independence, while maintaining a consistent commitment to continuous learning in professional and scholarly contexts. |
| Teamwork | Collaborate effectively and contribute constructively to team objectives with colleagues, other professionals, and members of the wider community in diverse professional and scholarly contexts. |
| Global citizenship | Apply culturally responsive, critically reflective and embodied self-knowledge in decolonial practice and diversity principles, to engage ethically with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island peoples as well as diverse communities and cultures, within professional and/or scholarly contexts. |
Approved at Faculty Board May 2025
*Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.