Course overview
Want a career that is both rich in diverse experience and prepares you for the future? Deakin’s Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Information Technology allows you to have just that. This course equips you with the transferable skills needed to seamlessly move between the roles of the future, along with the technical knowledge and critical thinking skills to shape that future.
Combining arts with IT will see you graduate with a diverse, in-demand skill set that sets you apart in industry. You will develop specialist knowledge in your chosen arts disciplines ranging from history to social media and learn how to apply critical, creative and strategic thinking to real-world issues. In your IT studies, you will gain the skills and experience required to embark on a technology-rich career. You will also develop foundational knowledge and skills in areas such as cloud computing, application development or cyber security.
If you want to become a leader in the forefront of technology, why not graduate with a set of complementary skills that boost your employability?
Current Deakin students
To access your official course details for the year you started your degree, please visit the handbook
- Award granted
- Bachelor of Arts / Bachelor of Information Technology
- Year
2026 course information
- VTAC code
- 1400310703 - Waurn Ponds (Geelong), International full-fee paying place
1400510703 - Burwood (Melbourne), International full-fee paying place - Deakin code
- D310
- CRICOS code?Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students
- 107525D Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Level
- Undergraduate
- Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) recognition
The award conferred upon completion is recognised in the Australian Qualifications Framework at Level 7
#1 Victorian uni for graduate employment
Choose a Deakin degree for vital industry experience on placements, hands-on learning in world-class facilities and guidance from industry-expert academics. We offer lifetime career support and are the #1 Victorian university for graduate employment.
Course structure
To complete the Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Information Technology, you must pass 32 credit points. This includes:
- DAI001 Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0-credit-point compulsory unit) in your first study period
- 16 credit points from the Bachelor of Arts
- 1 arts major (8 credit points)
- remaining credit points, which may comprise of:
- 1 additional arts major
- 1 additional arts minor
- open elective units
- Employability sequence
- a combination of the above
- a minimum of 4 credit points of art coded units at level 3
- 16 credit points from the Bachelor of Information Technology
- STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit point compulsory unit)
- SIT010 Safety Induction Program (0-credit point compulsory unit)
- 12 credit points of core units
- 3 credit points of capstone units
- 1 credit point information technology course elective unit
- A maximum of 12 credit points at level 1
- A minimum of 10 credit points at level 3
- course requirements for both Bachelor of Arts (A310) and Bachelor of Information Technology (S326) must be satisfied
Most units are equal to one credit point. As a full-time student you will study four credit points per trimester and usually undertake two trimesters per year.
All students are required to meet the University's academic progress and conduct requirements.
16
Bachelor of Arts credit points
+
16
Bachelor of Information Technology credit points
=
32
Total credit points
Compulsory 0-credit point module
To be completed in the first trimester of study:
Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin
Employability sequence units
Your Future Direction
Plus 1 credit point from:
Leadership and Transformation
Communication and Persuasive Presentation
Entrepreneurial Mindset
Expand Your Experience
Plus 1 credit point from:
Internship
Enhance Your Experience
Your Professional Story
Majors and minors
Refer to the details of each major sequence for availability.
One (1) approved Arts major sequences of 8 credit points selected from A310 Bachelor of Arts Major/Minor listing, the remaining credit point(s) may be used to undertake a Bachelor of Arts minor sequence or to take additional elective units chosen from the Bachelor of Arts. A minimum of 4 credit points at level 3 of Arts coded units.
Compulsory 0-credit point units
To be completed in the first trimester of study:
Career Tools for Employability (0 credit points)
Units
Introduction to Programming
Computer Systems
Database Fundamentals
Introduction to Data Science and Artificial Intelligence
Introduction to Responsive Web Apps
Real World Practices for Cyber Security
Information Technology Systems and Innovation
User Centred Design
Introduction to Software Engineering
Professional Practice in Information Technology #
Communicating Information Technology Projects
Strategic Integration of Artificial Intelligence
Team Project (A) - Project Management and Practices (capstone)^+
Plus, one (1) SIT elective unit
# Corequisite of STP010 Career Tools for Employability
Plus 2 credit points from the following capstone options:
Team Project (B) - Execution and Delivery (capstone)^+
IT Placements and Industry Experience (capstone)^+
OR
Professional Practice (2 credit points) (capstone)^+
^ offered in Trimester 1, Trimester 2, Trimester 3
+ Students must have completed STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit point compulsory unit) and SIT223 Professional Practice in Information Technology.
It is important to ensure your course plan meets the course rules detailed above. Students should contact Student Central for assistance with course planning, choosing the right units and understanding course rules.
Intakes by location
The availability of a course varies across locations and intakes. This means that a course offered in Trimester 1 may not be offered in the same location for Trimester 2 or 3. Check each intake for up-to-date information on when and where you can commence your studies.
- Start date: March
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Online
- Start date: July
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Online
Deakin splits the academic year into three terms, known as trimesters. Most students usually undertake two trimesters each year (March-June, July-November).
CHOOSE DEAKIN, THE #1 VICTORIAN UNIVERSITY FOR COURSE SATISFACTION
Course duration
You may be able to study available units in the optional third trimester to fast-track your degree, however your course duration may be extended if there are delays in meeting course requirements, such as completing a placement.
Mandatory student checks
Any unit which contains work integrated learning, a community placement or interaction with the community may require a police check, Working with Children Check or other check.
Equipment Requirements
The learning experiences and assessment activities within this course may require students to have access to a range of technologies beyond a laptop or desktop computer. For information regarding hardware and software requirements, please refer to the Bring your own device (BYOD) guidelines via the School of Information Technology website in addition to the individual unit outlines in the Handbook.
Workload
Typically 150-hours of learning and assessment activities per Deakin credit point (as per AQF Explanation). You can expect to participate in a range of teaching activities each week. This could include lectures, seminars, practicals and online interaction. You can refer to the individual unit details in the course structure for more information. You will also need to study and complete assessment tasks in your own time.
Participation requirements
Placement can occur at any time, including during standard holiday breaks. Learn about key dates at Deakin.
Elective units may be selected that include compulsory placements, work-based training, community-based learning or collaborative research training arrangements.
Reasonable adjustments to participation and other course requirements will be made for students with a disability. More information available at Disability support services.
Work experience
This course includes a compulsory work placement with an approved host organisation to take your learning beyond the classroom and prepare you to be work and career ready. Work Integrated Learning units offered in this course provide you with the opportunity to develop your professional networks and work practices while completing your degree. This course includes a compulsory work placement.
Elective units may also provide additional opportunities for Work Integrated Learning experiences.
Entry requirements
Selection is based on a holistic consideration of your academic merit, work experience, likelihood of success, availability of places, participation requirements, regulatory requirements, and individual circumstances. You will need to meet the minimum academic and English language proficiency requirements to be considered for selection, but this does not guarantee admission.
A combination of qualifications and experience may be deemed equivalent to minimum academic requirements.
If you don't meet the academic entry requirements as outlined in the tabs below, or haven't completed Year 12, or don't hold any relevant qualifications, the STAT (Skills for Tertiary Admissions Test) Multiple Choice (MC) may be an option for you to meet course entry requirements.
Academic requirements
If you’re currently studying Year 12, or completed Year 12 in the last two years, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
Year 12 prerequisite subjects
- Units 3 and 4: a study score of at least 25 in English EAL (English as an Additional Language) or at least 20 in English other than EAL
ATAR
- Senior Secondary Certificate of Education with an unadjusted ATAR of at least 50 or equivalent
If you have undertaken higher education studies after secondary schooling, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- successful completion of at least two bachelor level or above units (AQF Level 7 or equivalent)
If you have undertaken any Vocational Education and Training (VET) study after secondary school, you will need to meet at least one of following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- completion of a certificate IV or higher in a related discipline
- completion of a diploma or higher in any discipline
- at least 50% completion of a diploma or higher in a related discipline
If you finished Year 12 more than three years ago, or did not finish Year 12, and have not undertaken any further study, you may be considered for admission to this degree based on your work, volunteer and/or life experience.
Submit a personal statement outlining your motivation to study, previous education and employment history, and how this course can assist your career aspirations or progression. Think of it as a job application cover letter – it should be relevant and demonstrate your commitment and interest in this course or study area.
Find the entry requirement for your country?International entry score
We are comparing your country’s qualification to the Australian ATAR score. Meeting this score does not guarantee admission into a course. Admission is subject to meeting all criteria, including English language requirements.
To meet the English language proficiency requirements of this course, you will need to demonstrate at least one of the following:
- Victorian Certificate of Education (VCE) English Units 3 and 4: Study score of 25 in English as an Additional Language (EAL) or 20 in any other English
- IELTS overall score of 6 (with no band score less than 6.0) or equivalent
- other evidence of English language proficiency (learn more about other ways to satisfy the requirements)
Subject adjustment
A study score of 30 in Art, Dance, Drama, any English, any Humanities, any LOTE or Studio Arts equals 2 aggregate points per study. A study score of 30 in any English, any Information Technology or any Mathematics equals 2 aggregate points per study. Overall maximum of 12 points.
Access and equity
Equity schemes and scholarships, formerly known as Special Entry Access Schemes (SEAS), enable Deakin to consider any disadvantaged circumstances you may have experienced and how these have impacted your studies. Equity schemes help us identify whether you are from an under-represented group when making selection decisions for certain courses. It's important to note that participation in an equity scheme does not exempt you from meeting the standard course entry requirements. Learn more about Deakin's equity schemes and scholarships.
Learn more about Deakin courses and how we compare to other universities when it comes to the quality of our teaching and learning. We're also committed to admissions transparency. Read about our first intake of 2025 students (PDF, 812KB) – their average ATARs, whether they had any previous higher education experience and more.
Not sure if you can get into Deakin? Discover the different entry pathways we offer and study options available to you, no matter your ATAR or education history.
Recognition of prior learning
If you have completed previous studies which you believe may reduce the number of units you have to complete at Deakin, indicate in the appropriate section on your application that you wish to be considered for Recognition of prior learning. You will need to provide a certified copy of your previous course details so your credit can be determined. If you are eligible, your offer letter will then contain information about your Recognition of prior learning. Your Recognition of prior learning is formally approved prior to your enrolment at Deakin during the Enrolment and Orientation Program. You must bring original documents relating to your previous study so that this approval can occur.
You can also refer to the recognition of prior learning (RPL) system which outlines the credit that may be granted towards a Deakin University degree.
Fees and scholarships
Fee information
Estimated tuition fee - full-fee paying place
$42,600 for 1 yr full-time AUD
Learn more about fees and your options for paying.
The tuition fees you pay are determined by the course you are enrolled in. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is provided as a guide only and represents the typical first-year tuition fees for students enrolled in this course. The cost will vary depending on the units you choose, your study load, the length of your course and any approved Recognition of prior learning you have.
Each unit you enrol in has a credit point value. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is calculated by adding together eight credit points of a typical combination of units for this course. Eight credit points is used as it represents a typical full-time enrolment load for a year.
You can find the credit point value of each unit under the Unit Description by searching for the unit in the handbook.
Learn more about international student fees.
Scholarship options
Deakin scholarships recognise your hard work and achievements. Our support can ease the financial pressure of studying in Australia so you stay focused on your success. Numbers are limited, so apply early for the best chance.
Apply now
Apply directly to Deakin
Applications can be made directly to the University through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's International Student Application Service.
We recommend engaging with a Deakin Authorised Agent who can assist you with the process and submit the application.
Apply through VTAC
If you are an international student completing an Australian Year 12 in Australia or overseas, you must submit an application through the Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre (VTAC). In addition, you may also apply directly to Deakin through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's international student application service.
Need more information on how to apply?
For information on the application process, including required documents and important dates, visit the How to apply webpage.
If you need assistance, please contact us.
Pathways
The Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Information Technology will provide pathways into postgraduate qualifications, including Honours, postgraduate coursework and HDR programs.
Alternate exits
- Associate Degree of Arts (A250)
- Bachelor of Arts (A310)
- Bachelor of Information Technology (S326)
- Diploma of Arabic (A221)
- Diploma of Arts (A215)
- Diploma of Chinese (A222)
- Diploma of Indonesian (A223)
- Diploma of Spanish (A224)
Articulated courses:
Career outcomes
The Bachelor of Arts builds valuable and transferable career skills, making you highly employable within many industries. The range of disciplines on offer also lets you follow your passion and develop the specialist skills to pursue the career you want.
IT is at the heart of innovation and productivity. It shapes the way we live, work, learn, communicate, socialise and entertain ourselves. It is no surprise then that IT graduates are in high demand globally. The Bachelor of Information Technology will equip you with the contemporary knowledge, skills and experience required to meet this demand, and to develop a successful and satisfying career as an IT professional.
As a graduate of Deakin’s Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Information Technology, you will be equipped for a broad range of careers. The specific types of opportunities available for graduates of this course will depend on the major sequences taken. For more detailed information on career outcomes for this combined course, see the entries for the Bachelor of Arts and the Bachelor of Information Technology.
For more information go to DeakinTALENT.
Professional recognition
The Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Information Technology is professionally accredited with the Australian Computer Society (ACS). This course is recognised internationally for entry to professional practice by other accrediting bodies through the Seoul Accord.
Deakin's graduate learning outcomes describe the knowledge and capabilities graduates can demonstrate at the completion of their course. These outcomes mean that regardless of the Deakin course you undertake, you can rest assured your degree will teach you the skills and professional attributes that employers value. They'll set you up to learn and work effectively in the future.
| Deakin Graduate Learning Outcomes | Course Learning Outcomes Bachelor of Arts (A310) | Course Learning Outcomes Bachelor of Information Technology (S326) |
|---|---|---|
| Discipline-specific knowledge and capabilities | Demonstrate a broad and coherent body of knowledge in the Arts disciplines, with depth in the underlying principles and concepts in one or more disciplines or areas of practice. | Develop a broad, coherent knowledge of the IT discipline, including its dynamic environment, with detailed knowledge of project management principles, and in-depth knowledge in the area of the chosen major. Design, develop and implement IT systems and software, and associated policies and procedures for optimal use and apply industry standards and best practice in one or more specialised areas of IT. Apply an in-depth knowledge of the roles of IT in the context of modern organisations and society and propose enhancements. |
| Communication | Demonstrate highly developed skills in oral, written and electronic communication and the ability to communicate research outcomes, and produce scholarly papers. | Communicate in a professional context to inform, explain and drive sustainable innovation through information technology, utilising a range of verbal, graphical and written methods, recognising the needs of diverse audiences. |
| Digital literacy | Research, analyse, synthesise and disseminate information using a range of appropriate technologies and resources in a rapidly-changing global environment. | Use digital technologies, platforms, frameworks and tools from the field of information technology to generate, manage, process and share digital resources and solutions. |
| Critical thinking | Use critical and analytical thinking and judgement in selecting and applying appropriate theories and methodologies to evaluate information and knowledge about society, culture and the arts. | Critically analyse information provided to inform decision making and evaluation of plans and solutions associated with the field of information technology. |
| Problem solving | Apply cognitive, technical and creative skills to generate solutions to unpredictable and sometimes complex problems in the Humanities, Social Sciences and the Creative Arts, including cross-disciplinary approaches. | Apply cognitive, technical, and creative skills from information technology to understand requirements and design, implement, and operate solutions to real-world and ill-defined computing problems. |
| Self-management | Demonstrate autonomy, responsibility and accountability for personal actions and a continued commitment to learning in personal, professional, and scholarly contexts. | Work independently to apply knowledge and skills to new situations in professional practice and/or further learning in the field of information technology with adaptability, autonomy, responsibility, and personal accountability for actions as a practitioner and a learner. |
| Teamwork | Work and learn collaboratively with colleagues, other professionals and members of the wider community. | Work independently and collaboratively to achieve team goals, contributing knowledge and skills from information technology to advance the teams objectives, employing effective teamwork practices and principles, and comprehending distinct workplace roles and their functions. |
| Global citizenship | Demonstrate an awareness of ethical issues, cultural diversity, and social responsibility when engaging in scholarship and professional roles in the local, national or international community. | Apply professional and ethical standards and accountability in the field of information technology, and engage openly and respectfully with diverse communities and cultures. |
Approved at Faculty Board February 2022
*Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.