Course overview
Prepare to enter the exciting world of scientific discovery with Deakin’s Bachelor of Science. Choose from a wide range of disciplines and forge your own path towards a career that aligns with your passions and goals. More than just laboratory work, this industry-led degree prepares you for the diverse, innovation-driven environments where today’s science graduates thrive. Follow your curiosity into any area of science that inspires you.
You will explore a range of science disciplines at the beginning of your degree, before specialising in the one you enjoy most. Deakin science graduates enter the workforce with confidence thanks to the extensive practical experience built into the course. Gain hands-on training in our advanced science labs, and apply your skills in real-world settings through industry placements and community science projects.
Ready to see how far your curiosity can take you?
Current Deakin students
To access your official course details for the year you started your degree, please visit the handbook
- Award granted
- Bachelor of Science
- Year
2026 course information
- VTAC code
- 1400314403 - Waurn Ponds (Geelong), International full-fee paying place
1400514403 - Burwood (Melbourne), International full-fee paying place - Deakin code
- S320
- CRICOS code?Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students
- 083996G Burwood (Melbourne), Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Level
- Undergraduate
- Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) recognition
The award conferred upon completion is recognised in the Australian Qualifications Framework at Level 7
GAIN VITAL INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE AT THE #1 VICTORIAN UNI FOR GRADUATE EMPLOYMENT
Course structure
To complete the Bachelor of Science, you must pass 24 credit points. This includes:
- DAI001 Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0-credit-point compulsory unit) in your first study period
- SLE010 Laboratory and Fieldwork Safety Induction Program (0-credit-point compulsory unit)
- STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0-credit-point compulsory unit)
- 9 credit points of core units
- 1 major (6 credit points)
- 9 credit points of open elective units
- a maximum of 10 credit points at level 1
- a minimum of 6 credit points at level 3 (including a minimum of 4 Science SLE* units).
Most units are equal to one credit point. As a full-time student you will study four credit points per trimester and usually undertake two trimesters per year.
All students are required to meet the University's academic progress and conduct requirements.
9
Core units
+
6
Major sequence
+
9
Electives
=
24
Total
Academic Integrity and Respect at Deakin (0 credit points)
Laboratory and Fieldwork Safety Induction Program (0 credit points)
Career Tools for Employability (0 credit points)
Cells and Genes
Ecology and the Environment
Essential Skills in Science
Physics for the Life Sciences
Science and Society
Communicating Science Ideas #
Choose one from:
Community Science Project # or
Professional Practice #
# Must have successfully completed STP010 Career Tools for Employability (0 credit point unit)
∼ Mathematics - choose one from:
Introduction to Functions, Relations and Graphs
Introduction to Statistics and Data Analysis
∼ Please note:
- It is recommended that students intending to take the Chemistry, Human Biology, Cell Biology and Genomics, Animal Biology, Plant Biology or Environmental Science majors undertake SIT191 Introduction to Statistics and Data Analysis.
- students intending to take the Chemistry major and who have not previously completed VCE Maths Methods (units 3 and 4) are advised to alternatively undertake SIT190 Introduction to Functions, Relations and Graphs.
- students intending to take the Mathematical Modelling major who have not completed VCE Maths Methods (units 3 and 4) are strongly advised to first complete SIT190 Introduction to Functions, Relations and Graphs.
Students intending to take the Mathematical Modelling major are not required to complete SIT190 Introduction to Functions, Relations and Graphs or SIT191 Introduction to Statistics and Data Analysis, however, they are able to undertake SIT190/ SIT191 as electives.
Chemistry - choose one from:
Chemistry in Our World
Chemistry for the Professional Sciences ^
^Assumed knowledge: SLE133 Chemistry in our World or high achievement in VCE Chemistry 3 and 4 (or equivalent).
Please note: SLE155 Chemistry for the Professional Sciences is a required prerequisite when undertaking the Cell Biology and Genomics and Chemistry majors.
Select from a range of open elective units, you may even be able to choose elective units from a completely different discipline area (subject to meeting unit requirements).
Refer to the details of each major sequence for availability.
Students must complete at least one major from the following areas:
- Animal Biology*
- Cell Biology and Genomics
- Chemistry
- Environmental Science
- Food Science
- Human Biology
- Mathematical Modelling
- Plant Biology*
Students wishing to gain credit for a double major combination in the BSc cannot count more than 2 units in common for both majors.
*Enrolment in a Trimester 3 study period is compulsory
Intakes by location
The availability of a course varies across locations and intakes. This means that a course offered in Trimester 1 may not be offered in the same location for Trimester 2 or 3. Check each intake for up-to-date information on when and where you can commence your studies.
- Start date: March
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
- Start date: July
- Available at:
- Burwood (Melbourne)
- Waurn Ponds (Geelong)
Deakin splits the academic year into three terms, known as trimesters. Most students usually undertake two trimesters each year (March-June, July-November).
Course duration
You may be able to study available units in the optional third trimester to fast-track your degree, however your course duration may be extended if there are delays in meeting course requirements, such as completing a placement.
Other course information
In addition to student contribution fees, students may be required to meet their own expenses in connection with travel, food and accommodation while on fieldwork.
Mandatory student checks
Any unit which contains work integrated learning, a community placement or interaction with the community may require a police check, Working with Children Check or other check.
Workload
You can expect to participate in a range of teaching activities each week. This could include lecturers, seminars, practicals and online interaction. You can refer to the individual unit details in the course structure for more information. You will also need to study and complete assessment tasks in your own time.
Participation requirements
You may be required to complete units in Trimester 3 depending on your chosen major. Please refer to the Handbook for unit offering patterns.
Elective units may be selected that may include compulsory placement, study tours, work-based training or collaborative research training arrangements.
Work experience
You will have the opportunity to undertake a discipline-specific industry- based learning placement as part of your course. This valuable experience allows you to apply and consolidate what you are learning, gain insight into workplace culture and practices, explore career options and develop a professional network before you graduate. Explore the SEBE WIL program.
Entry requirements
Selection is based on a holistic consideration of your academic merit, work experience, likelihood of success, availability of places, participation requirements, regulatory requirements, and individual circumstances. You will need to meet the minimum academic and English language proficiency requirements to be considered for selection, but this does not guarantee admission.
A combination of qualifications and experience may be deemed equivalent to minimum academic requirements.
If you don't meet the academic entry requirements as outlined in the tabs below, or haven't completed Year 12, or don't hold any relevant qualifications, the STAT (Skills for Tertiary Admissions Test) Multiple Choice (MC) may be an option for you to meet course entry requirements.
Academic requirements
If you’re currently studying Year 12, or completed Year 12 in the last two years, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
Year 12 prerequisite subjects
- Units 3 and 4: a study score of at least 25 in English EAL (English as an Additional Language) or at least 20 in English other than EAL
ATAR
- Senior Secondary Certificate of Education with an unadjusted ATAR of at least 50 or equivalent
If you have undertaken higher education studies after secondary schooling, you will need to meet all the following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- successful completion of at least two bachelor level or above units (AQF Level 7 or equivalent)
If you have undertaken any Vocational Education and Training (VET) study after secondary school, you will need to meet at least one of following criteria to be considered for admission to this degree:
- completion of a certificate IV or higher in a related discipline
- completion of a diploma or higher in any discipline
- at least 50% completion of a diploma or higher in a related discipline
If you finished Year 12 more than three years ago, or did not finish Year 12, and have not undertaken any further study, you may be considered for admission to this degree based on your work, volunteer and/or life experience.
Submit a personal statement outlining your motivation to study, previous education and employment history, and how this course can assist your career aspirations or progression. Think of it as a job application cover letter – it should be relevant and demonstrate your commitment and interest in this course or study area.
Find the entry requirement for your country?International entry score
We are comparing your country’s qualification to the Australian ATAR score. Meeting this score does not guarantee admission into a course. Admission is subject to meeting all criteria, including English language requirements.
To meet the English language proficiency requirements of this course, you will need to demonstrate at least one of the following:
- Victorian Certificate of Education (VCE) English Units 3 and 4: Study score of 25 in English as an Additional Language (EAL) or 20 in any other English
- IELTS overall score of 6.0 (with no band score less than 6.0) or equivalent
- other evidence of English language proficiency (learn more about other ways to satisfy the requirements)
Subject adjustment
A study score of 30 in any English, any Mathematics or any Science equals 2 aggregate points per study. Overall maximum of 10 points.
Access and equity
Equity schemes and scholarships, formerly known as Special Entry Access Schemes (SEAS), enable Deakin to consider any disadvantaged circumstances you may have experienced and how these have impacted your studies. Equity schemes help us identify whether you are from an under-represented group when making selection decisions for certain courses. It's important to note that participation in an equity scheme does not exempt you from meeting the standard course entry requirements. Learn more about Deakin's equity schemes and scholarships.
Learn more about Deakin courses and how we compare to other universities when it comes to the quality of our teaching and learning. We're also committed to admissions transparency. Read about our first intake of 2025 students (PDF, 812KB) – their average ATARs, whether they had any previous higher education experience and more.
Not sure if you can get into Deakin? Discover the different entry pathways we offer and study options available to you, no matter your ATAR or education history.
Recognition of prior learning
If you have completed previous studies which you believe may reduce the number of units you have to complete at Deakin, indicate in the appropriate section on your application that you wish to be considered for Recognition of prior learning. You will need to provide a certified copy of your previous course details so your credit can be determined. If you are eligible, your offer letter will then contain information about your credit for prior learning.
Your Recognition of prior learning is formally approved prior to your enrolment at Deakin during the Enrolment and Orientation Program. You must bring original documents relating to your previous study so that this approval can occur.
You can also refer to the recognition of prior learning (RPL) system which outlines the credit that may be granted towards a Deakin University degree.
Fees and scholarships
Fee information
Estimated tuition fee - full-fee paying place
$42,400 for 1 yr full-time AUD
Learn more about fees and your options for paying.
The tuition fees you pay are determined by the course you are enrolled in. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is provided as a guide only and represents the typical first-year tuition fees for students enrolled in this course. The cost will vary depending on the units you choose, your study load, the length of your course and any approved Recognition of prior learning you have.
Each unit you enrol in has a credit point value. The 'Estimated tuition fee' is calculated by adding together eight credit points of a typical combination of units for this course. Eight credit points is used as it represents a typical full-time enrolment load for a year.
You can find the credit point value of each unit under the Unit Description by searching for the unit in the handbook.
Learn more about international student fees.
Scholarship options
Deakin scholarships recognise your hard work and achievements. Our support can ease the financial pressure of studying in Australia so you stay focused on your success. Numbers are limited, so apply early for the best chance.
Apply now
Apply directly to Deakin
Applications can be made directly to the University through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's International Student Application Service.
We recommend engaging with a Deakin Authorised Agent who can assist you with the process and submit the application.
Apply through VTAC
If you are an international student completing an Australian Year 12 in Australia or overseas, you must submit an application through the Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre (VTAC). In addition, you may also apply directly to Deakin through StudyLink Connect - Deakin University's international student application service.
Need more information on how to apply?
For information on the application process, including required documents and important dates, visit the How to apply webpage.
If you need assistance, please contact us.
Pathways
Articulated courses:
Career outcomes
Graduates of this course can pursue various career paths in both public and private sectors. You might explore opportunities in government institutions, where roles span across quality assurance, occupational health and safety, research, planning, management and marketing. Additionally, you could find positions in science-related industries, specialising in pharmaceutical production or sales. Other avenues include biomedical science, involving research or working in hospital and laboratory settings.
Quality assurance roles are available in analytical and diagnostic laboratories, while the food industry offers positions in quality control. Opportunities extend to environmental and natural resources sectors. Graduates might also consider careers in teaching, information technology, mathematics or science journalism, among others.
Professional recognition
The Bachelor of Science (chemistry major) has been professionally accredited by the Royal Australian Chemical Institute (RACI). Graduates are encouraged to apply for membership with their local RACI branch.
Deakin's graduate learning outcomes describe the knowledge and capabilities graduates can demonstrate at the completion of their course. These outcomes mean that regardless of the Deakin course you undertake, you can rest assured your degree will teach you the skills and professional attributes that employers value. They'll set you up to learn and work effectively in the future.
| Deakin Graduate Learning Outcomes | Course Learning Outcomes |
|---|---|
| Discipline-specific knowledge and capabilities | Apply a broad and coherent knowledge of the scientific disciplines of mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology and the environment within the chosen major area(s) of study to demonstrate a deep understanding of scientific facts, scientific practices and the edifice of science. Apply technical knowledge and skills and use them in a range of activities, in a professional and/or academic setting within the major area(s) of study; this application of technical knowledge and skills being characterised by demonstrable in-depth knowledge of scientific methods and tools, and demonstrable proficiency in the utilisation of chosen major area(s) knowledge. Use hypotheses, laws, facts and theories to investigate, test, analyse, and evaluate scientific data and demonstrate autonomy, well-developed judgement and responsibility to argue about characteristics and aspects of scientific theory in the advancement of science. |
| Communication | Demonstrate listening skills and the ability to use a range of communication skills to accommodate, encourage and answer audience questions. Articulate the boundaries or limits of scientific information, experimental or field data, discuss error, probability, uncertainty, conclusions and arguments. Judge how well to present essential details of scientific procedures, key observations, results and conclusions in a professional manner using appropriate style, language and references including local, national, and international contributions or contexts. |
| Digital literacy | Use well-developed technical skills, judgement and responsibility to independently locate, analyse, evaluate the merits of, synthesise and disseminate scientific literature, information, data and results. |
| Critical thinking | Locate and evaluate scientific information from multiple sources and use scientific methods and frameworks to structure and plan observations, experimentation or fieldwork investigations. Use critical and analytical thinking and judgement to analyse, synthesise and generate an integrated knowledge, formulate hypotheses and test them against evidence-based scientific concepts and principles. |
| Problem solving | Use initiative and creativity in planning, identifying and using multiple approaches to recognise, clarify, construct and solve problems taking into account relevant contextual factors. Advocate scientific methodologies, hypotheses, laws, facts and principles to create solutions to authentic real-world problems. |
| Self-management | Take personal, professional and social responsibility within changing professional science contexts to develop autonomy as learners and evaluate own performance. Work autonomously, responsibly and safely to solve unstructured problems and actively apply knowledge of regulatory frameworks and scientific methodologies to make informed choices. |
| Teamwork | Work independently and collaboratively as a team to contribute towards achieving team goals and thereby demonstrate interpersonal skills including the ability to brainstorm, negotiate, resolve conflicts, managing difficult and awkward conversations, provide constructive feedback and work in diverse professional, social and cultural contexts. |
| Global citizenship | Apply scientific knowledge and skills with a high level of autonomy, judgement, responsibility and accountability in collaboration with others to articulate the place and importance of science in the local and global community. |
*Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.