Our history in South Asia
Deakin has a long and rich relationship with the South Asia region that spans almost three decades. We were the first foreign university to establish operations in India in 1994. Since then, we have championed initiatives including research opportunities, collaborative centres, international conferences, seminars and more.
Deakin South Asia Office
Deakin’s South Asia Office in New Delhi is a hub for operations across the region including in Bangladesh, Bhutan, Mauritius, Myanmar and Nepal. The office provides support for recruitment, research, mobility, alumni and employability. The Deakin South Asia office is led by Ravneet Pawha, Vice-President (Global Alliances) and CEO (South Asia), David Das, Deputy Director (South Asia) and Priyanka Singh, Associate Director (South Asia).
Our history in India
Over three decades, Deakin has developed strategic partnerships with India’s premier research organisations, academic institutions and corporations.
Deakin HUBS
The Deakin HUBS will serve as the hub for all engagement initiatives alongside strategic partners Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Symbiosis International University, Chitkara University and OP Jindal Global University. This initiative is one of the many steps taken by Deakin University towards realising the objectives outlined in the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 to achieve internationalisation of higher education in India through research collaborations and student exchange with high-quality foreign Higher Educational Institutions (HEI).
Long-standing engagement
Deakin received the highest honour at the inaugural Australia India Business Council Awards in 2016 for Outstanding Contribution by an Australian Organisation in India, recognising our long-standing engagement with the country.
Research initiatives
The Deakin India Research Initiative supports innovative, industry-led research and enables PhD students to continue their research while working. The initiative received the 2019 Australian Financial Review Higher Education Award for International Education.
Leaders in business
Ravneet Pawha, Vice-President (Global Alliances) and CEO (South Asia), Deakin University was awarded Business Leader of the Year 2018 by the India Australia Business and Community Awards.
Education is the future
Australian Government report ‘An India Economic Strategy To 2035’ highlights education as the flagship sector for engagement by Australia. The authors present Deakin as a case study of successful action in India.
An innovative educational initiative
Deakin has officially unveiled its India campus in Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT City), making it the first university in the world to open an international teaching campus in India. You can now apply to study at our GIFT City Campus in India.
Our projects
Our research partnerships with India are based on preparing for the future through joint doctoral programs and innovative research projects.
Deakin India Research Initiative
Launched in 2009, the award-winning Deakin India Research Initiative (DIRI) offers Indian students, academics and professionals the opportunity to pursue a PhD in India while working with Deakin researchers through co-supervised doctoral programs.
TERI-Deakin Nanobiotechnology Centre
The TERI-Deakin Nanobiotechnology Centre was established in 2011 by India’s The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) in collaboration with Deakin to foster cutting-edge research in nanobiotechnology. The research delves into issues of food security in changing climates, remediation of polluted environments through natural products, improving health through novel molecules and improving the quality of life for poor communities.
Centre of Excellence
In 2018, Deakin and the Indian Institute of Technology Madras established India’s first bilateral Centre of Excellence in Advanced Materials and Manufacturing. The centre focuses on developing the next generation of wear-resistant and high temperature alloys, smart and functional materials such as nano-spun fibres and advanced manufacturing technologies.
Our partnerships
Deakin has been a key conduit in the Australia–India relationship. Over three decades, we have developed partnerships with leading Indian research institutions, academic institutions and corporations, resulting in cutting-edge research and training.
#207 university worldwide
Deakin is the #207 ranked university worldwide, reflecting our world-class degrees, excellent graduate outcomes and student satisfaction.
I learnt about Deakin when I met a Deakin University representative in India. I chose to study at Deakin because of their Master of Business Administration (International) degree – it was the perfect combination of business and academia – which then translated into me choosing to study in Australia.
Master of Business Administration (International)
Workplace learning
DeakinCo. provides workplace solutions that assess and build workplace skills and capability for organisations. Our courses cover three key themes, human-centred skills, leadership skills and technical skills. We partner with the following Indian corporations to deliver joint skills programs:
- Infosys
- National Skill Development Corporation
- National Stock Exchange Academy
- Tata Management Training Centre
- Rajasthan Royals.
Our scholarships
We are proud to offer scholarship across all levels of study to our South Asian students. Our scholarships range in value from full scholarships that recognise your exceptionally high academic performance to bursaries that will assist you in paying for your university fees.
Book an appointment
We’re here to help! Don’t miss your chance to chat to one of our dedicated student advisors, who will:
- book a consult
- answer your questions
- provide step-by-step guidance on application to enrolment.
Consultations can be pre-booked to ensure that you get dedicated time with an expert. Slots are filling up fast so book today.
Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.