Find a degree by study area
Browse our study areas to match your interests, passions and goals with a Deakin degree. Learn about study options and your career prospects after you graduate.
Understand the financial aspects of markets and organisations to launch your future or take the next step in your career.
Make an impact with your creativity and design skills by turning your big ideas into the homes, buildings and cities of the future.
Follow your passion and develop in-demand skills for a successful and rewarding career.
Develop the skills and knowledge needed to become a business leader and gain a globally recognised qualification.
Master the tools of your trade and advance your artistic growth while developing industry connections.
Study the causes of crime and explore how it can be minimised or prevented.
Discover how to turn raw data into valuable insights and develop in-demand skills.
Deakin is ranked #207 worldwide by the prestigious QS World University Rankings.
Study at Australia’s #3 university for education – increase your career opportunities with a Deakin education and teaching degree.
Gain the skills and practical experience needed to design and develop solutions for global challenges.
Conserve wildlife and plants, study marine ecosystems or help with environmental education.
Discover the relationship between food, nutrition, human health and disease prevention.
Enjoy a rewarding career and help people lead healthier lives.
Advance your skills to lead in times of conflict and change with a postgraduate course.
Turn your passion for technology into a future-focused career with an accredited IT or cyber security degree.
Get a first-class legal education from leading practitioners and researchers.
Be equipped with management best practices to help you take the next step in your career.
Develop practical skills and industry connections, and graduate ready to shape the global media and communications landscape.
Graduate skilled and motivated to improve community health and wellbeing.
Study with one of the largest and most reputable nursing schools in Australia.
Explore the way the human mind works and graduate ready to meet the huge demand for mental health professionals.
Embrace your curiosity and help discover solutions to world issues. Find out where a career in science can take you.
Stand out in the sport industry with a Deakin degree – home to the world’s #1 sport science school.
#207 university worldwide
#1 in the world for sport science
#13 in the world for education
#14 in the world for nursing
Top 3 business school in Victoria
Award-winning university career service
Key enrolment and orientation dates
With Deakin’s flexible trimester system, you can start in March, July or November. Application deadlines, orientation sessions and study periods vary each trimester so check the key dates to stay on track.
Study options at Australian universities
Are you looking for your first university degree? Or thinking about further study to advance your career? Deakin has the right degree for you.
Undergraduate degrees
Build a solid foundation for your future with an undergraduate degree from Deakin.
Postgraduate degrees
Deakin postgraduate degrees are designed for you to take the next step in your career.
Research degrees
Bring your ideas to life under the supervision of a globally recognised expert Deakin research degree.
Need help choosing the right degree?
If you are unsure which degree matches your career goals or interests, our team can guide you.
Future student advisers
Our team of advisers can answer questions about study options, entry requirements and the application process.
International staff
Our international staff can help you decide which Deakin degree is right for you and help you submit your application.
Authorised agents
Deakin has a network of authorised agents around the world who provide advice and assist with your application.
Need more information about a degree?
Deakin runs degree and study area webinars, where you can learn about our degrees from course experts and current students. Find upcoming webinars or watch recordings from recent events.
My tutors and professors always give me an idea of what is happening in the real world behind the theories in books. With the work-integrated learning program – which simulates on-the-job work – I feel ready for the workplace.
Bachelor of Commerce
Learn how to apply
Applications are open. You can apply to study at Deakin by following our step-by-step instructions.
Reduce the cost of studying in Australia
Studying at Deakin is an investment in your future, and we’re here to help you manage the costs. Learn how much your course will cost, what it’s like to live in Australia and how applying early could improve your chances of receiving an international scholarship.
How much will my degree cost?
Tuition fees will vary depending on your degree. Our fees estimator tool will give you a better idea of your study costs. Remember, this is a guide only as tuition fees can change from year to year.
What does it cost to live in Australia?
Discover more about the cost of living in Australia. Learn what accommodation options you have, what your weekly expenses might be and how much you can work while studying.
Entry requirements to study at Deakin
To study at Deakin you need to meet academic, language and visa requirements. If you don't meet some of the conditions, we can help you find a pathway to your course.
Academic requirements
Each degree has specific academic entry requirements based on your previous secondary school and university results.
English requirements
There are English language requirements you will need to meet to study at Deakin, to help you get the most out of your studies.
Visa requirements
Most international students require a student visa to study at Deakin. You can apply for this after you accept your offer.
Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.
Get help or contact Deakin
Our friendly advisers are available to speak to you one-on-one about your study options, support services for international students and how we can help you study at Deakin in Australia.
Phone: +61 3 9918 9188