#207 university worldwide
#1 in the world for sport science
#13 in the world for education
#14 in the world for nursing
Top 3 business school in Victoria
Award-winning university career service
Experience world-class education
As a Deakin undergraduate student, you will gain the experience and skills employers value. Enjoy modern facilities, strong industry links and professional accreditation at the #1 university in the Australian state of Victoria for student satisfaction.*
State-of-the-art facilities
Take advantage of Deakin's modern facilities You will learn using the same cutting-edge technology professionals use.
Industry-shaped degrees
Our close links to industry mean you can be confident what you learn will be relevant to your future career.
Learn from experts
Our dedicated academic staff are are committed to your success. That’s why we’re #1 in Victoria for teaching quality.*
Unsure what you want to study?
Browse our study areas to find a degree that suits your interests, strengths and career goals. Our study area pages explore topics in more detail so you can understand the difference between related degrees.
Types of undergraduate degrees
As your first degree in a particular subject, undergraduate degrees are your entry into post-secondary education.
Bachelor degree
A bachelor degree is the minimum requirement for many careers and a prerequisite for masters, usually taking three to four years full time to complete.
Bachelor degree (honours)
Honours is an additional year of specialised study, usually involving a supervised project at the end of, or as part of, your bachelor degree.
Associate degree
An associate degree takes two years full time or part-time equivalent. It is a pathway into selected bachelor degrees at Deakin.
Deakin places a strong emphasis on integrating technology into its teaching facilities, with well-equipped laboratories for practical learning.
Bachelor of Nutrition Science
Learn how to apply
Applications are open. Apply to study at Deakin by following our step-by-step instructions.
Entry requirements
Deakin has academic, English language and visa requirements that you will need to meet before you start. If you don't meet some of the academic or language conditions, we can help you find a pathway into your dream course.
We're here to help
Discover our helpful guide to understanding the terms used by Deakin University.
Your guide to Australian university terms
Navigate Australian university terms with Deakin's comprehensive guide for international students. Understand key concepts and terminology easily.
*2022 Student Experience Survey, Quality Indicators for Learning and Teaching (QILT)
Get help or contact Deakin
Our friendly advisers are available to speak to you one-on-one about your study options, support services for international students and how we can help you study at Deakin in Australia.
Phone: +61 3 9918 9188