Life in Warrnambool
Warrnambool is Victoria’s fifth largest city and the largest town on the Great Ocean Road. The city has a relaxed seaside vibe and wide-open spaces. It is an appealing place to call home and a popular destination for travellers.
The city has a rich culture of art, music, food and history. There is plenty of beautiful scenery and wildlife to enjoy. Many people choose to live, study and work in Warrnambool. The city is only a few hours’ drive from Melbourne, giving you access to a big city when you want it.
Take a drive along the Great Ocean Road to see the Twelve Apostles. You can also visit the historic town of Port Fairy. There is something for everyone in Warrnambool.
Here is what life in Warrnambool is like for students:
Culture and events
The city hosts live music, markets, sport, comedy and many festivals. There is always something to see and do.
Cafes and restaurants
Warrnambool has a vibrant food scene. You can enjoy fresh local produce, great coffee and multicultural cuisine.
Shopping
The city has large supermarkets and weekend markets. You can buy fresh produce, international food and local goods.
Getting around
Local buses make it easy to travel around town. Warrnambool has two train stations, including one at Deakin’s campus. Trains connect you to Geelong and Melbourne. Learn more about transport.
Health and safety
Warrnambool is safe and welcoming. The city has low crime rates and quality healthcare. Deakin provides campus security and medical services for students. Learn more about student wellbeing services at Deakin.
Weather
Summers are warm, with average daytime temperatures of 23°C. Winters are cool, averaging 14°C during the day. Summer days can reach 40°C and some winter mornings can drop to 3°C.
Discover Tilak’s journey
After arriving in Australia, Tilak experienced culture shock. Studying a Bachelor of Commerce at Deakin University, Tilak has made friends from all over the world. They help him feel at home and part of the Warrnambool community.
Explore life at Deakin’s Warrnambool Campus
The Warrnambool Campus is on the Great Ocean Road, five minutes from local surf beaches. Students can enjoy peaceful surroundings along the Hopkins River. The campus provides opportunities for outdoor activities before or after class. Day trips to beaches, coastal attractions and national parks are easy from Warrnambool.
Living and studying in Warrnambool
Living in Warrnambool is affordable. The price of accommodation and daily living costs is lower than in Melbourne or Geelong. This means your money will go further. You can enjoy restaurants, markets, festivals and weekend trips without overspending.
Students can choose to live on campus in Deakin’s residences. Living on campus is safe, social and convenient, with classes close by. There are also many accommodation options in Warrnambool for students who want to live off campus.
#1 Victorian university for student support
Coming to Warrnambool to study can be the adventure of a lifetime. From orientation and welcome sessions to academic support and social activities, Deakin is here to support you every step of the way while you settle into life in this beautiful regional city.
The people are so friendly in Warrnambool. Everyone is helpful, lecturers know your name, it is a beautiful campus and easy to get to Geelong and Melbourne by train. There is plenty to do with friends – shopping, bowls, fishing, badminton, the Deakin gym and eating sushi.
Bachelor of Nursing
Working in Warrnambool
Warrnambool has a thriving economy with many opportunities for casual, part-time and full-time work for international students. Working while you study is a great way to gain valuable industry experience. Any work experience will be looked upon favourably by future employers.
Deakin’s career and employment service, DeakinTALENT, can help you find part-time, casual and internship roles while you study.
Warrnambool is a regional city. Deakin graduates who study in Warrnambool may be eligible for an extended temporary post-study work visa.
Explore nature and wildlife
Living in Warrnambool means that you are surrounded by the natural beauty of south-west Victoria. There are walking and bike trails with spectacular ocean views, beautiful beaches, gardens and parks. It is an ideal place for learning new skills such as scuba diving.
You can travel along the heritage-listed Great Ocean Road to see the Twelve Apostles or hike through parks and reserves that protect Australia’s native plants and animals. Highlights include spotting southern right whales or watching penguins.
Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.
Contact us
Our friendly advisers are available to speak to you one-on-one about your study options, support services for international students and how we can help you study at Deakin in Australia.