How to apply to study in Australia at Deakin University
It’s easy to apply to Deakin. Be sure to allow enough time for us to process your application and for you to accept your offer. You will also need time to obtain your student visa so you can arrive in Australia before your degree begins.
We recommend applying through a Deakin authorised agent. You can also apply directly to Deakin using the Studylink application portal. Follow the steps below and make sure to include all required documents.
Apply through a Deakin authorised agent
Our authorised agents are trained by Deakin to give accurate advice about the University and our degrees. They can guide you on entry requirements and scholarships. The agent will submit your application for you and manage all communication with Deakin.
Steps to apply to Deakin University
Check entry requirements
Every Deakin degree has different academic and English language entry requirements. If you do not meet the entry requirements for your chosen degree, we offer pathway programs to help you get started.
Support for your English language journey
Study at Deakin University's English Language Institute (DUELI) as a pathway to a Deakin degree.
Need help meeting the academic requirements?
If you need some help meeting the academic entry requirements for your chosen degree, Deakin College offers pathway programs to set you up for success at university.
Access more information on Australian student visa conditions.
For everything you need to know about your degree’s entry requirements, check the course page for your specific degree.Connect with an authorised agent
Depending on your country of residence or nationality, you may need to apply through a Deakin-authorised agent.
Most students choose to apply this way due to the comprehensive support agents provide. Use the agent finder tool to find an agent in your country of residence who can guide you through submitting your application.
If you are unable to locate an agent in your country, please contact one of our international offices.Gather your documents
You will need certified copies of your academic transcripts and award certificates, proof of identity (such as your passport), and proof of English proficiency (your IELTS test).
Gather these supporting documents and take the original document and a photocopy to an authorised person for certification. This could be an authorised agent, public notary, Australian lawyer or police officer. Documents in languages other than English will also need to be translated.
Some courses may require a personal statement. If yours degree does, here is how to write a personal statement.
Still waiting on your results?
If you are waiting for documentation, such as your IELTS results, you can submit an incomplete application. We can start to process it, but cannot make an offer until we have all your documents.Submit your application
You or your agent can submit your application to Deakin online. Applying early gives you more time to organise your visa, travel or accommodation if needed.
You may also be eligible for financial support. Check for scholarships offered by Deakin and the Australian Government. Deakin offers a range of scholarships that you may be eligible for.
How to apply video guide
Ready to apply to Deakin? This step-by-step guide explains how international students can complete their application with confidence. Learn how to check entry requirements, prepare your documents and submit your application – either directly to Deakin or through an authorised Deakin agent.
Apply for a Deakin international scholarship
A scholarship from Deakin can make your dream of studying in Australia come true. These are awarded on a first come, first served basis so apply early to increase your chance of getting a scholarship.
The staff member who handled my submission was very responsive and helpful. The submission was surprisingly easy and straightforward. And exceeding my expectations, I was granted the Global Health Leaders Scholarship.
Master of Public Health
What happens after you apply to Deakin?
Once you’ve submitted your application, you will receive an acknowledgement email from Deakin within two days. Your application will be allocated to a case officer who will assess your documents and be in contact if anything further is required.
How long until I know if I am successful?
You can expect an outcome for your application within the following timeframe, from the date we receive all required information:
- 48 hours for English language study at DUELI
- two to three weeks for undergraduate and postgraduate coursework
- approximately eight weeks for research degrees, including PhD and Masters by research.
How do I accept my offer?
If your application is successful, you will receive a Letter of Offer. We recommend you accept your offer as soon as possible so you can apply for your visa sooner.
Vietnamese and Indonesian translations
The information on this page is available in both Indonesian and Vietnamese.
Completed an Australian Year 12?
If you have completed an Australian Year 12 in Australia or overseas you should apply for undergraduate courses through the Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre (VTAC) and StudyLink Connect. Applying through both platforms will allow us to make you a conditional offer before you receive your ATAR score.
Worked or studied before?
If you have studied before or been in the workforce your qualifications may reduce the number of subjects or units in your degree, allowing you to finish earlier and pay less. This is called recognition of prior learning. The application form includes a section about your tertiary education and work experience and requires some certified documents.
Did you know a scholarship can reduce your fees?
Deakin scholarships support international students throughout their studies. These are awarded on a first come, first served basis. The earlier you apply, the better chance you have of being offered a scholarship.
Fees at Deakin are comparable to other universities and vary depending on your degree. Deakin's international tuition fees vary depending on the degree and units you choose, as well as your level of study. The fee payment process is simple and easy to use. Scholarships are deducted from your fees.
Contact us
If you are ready to apply and need help, our friendly advisers and authorised agents are available to support your application to Deakin University in Australia. This page is available in both Indonesian and Vietnamese.
Phone: +61 3 9918 9188