#207 university worldwide
#1 in the world for sport science
#13 in the world for education
#14 in the world for nursing
Top 3 business school in Victoria
Award-winning university career service
Experience world-class education
As a Deakin postgraduate student, you will gain the experience and skills to take your career to the next level. Enjoy modern facilities, strong industry links and professional accreditation at the #1 university in the Australian state of Victoria for student satisfaction.*
Cutting-edge degrees
Deakin courses are shaped by our world-leading research and industry partners, ensuring you learn the latest knowledge in your field.
State-of-the-art facilities
Take advantage of Deakin's modern facilities. You will learn using the same cutting-edge technology professionals use.
Learn from experts
With passionate teachers who care about your success, one-on-one study mentors, online resources and so much more, we will help you succeed.
Unsure what you want to study?
Browse our study areas to find a degree that suits your interests, strengths and career goals. Our study area pages explore topics in more detail so you can understand the difference between related degrees.
Types of postgraduate degrees
Postgraduate degrees are an advanced level of study, beyond an undergraduate degree. They are ideal for those wishing to advance their current career. They also provide an option to start on a new career path. Whatever your goals are, we have a postgraduate degree for you.
Graduate certificate and graduate diploma
A graduate certificate is usually six months full time or part-time equivalent in duration. A graduate diploma is one year full time or part-time equivalent. Both are designed to add practical skills to your previous study and work experience.
Masters by coursework
A masters by coursework takes between 18 months and two years of full-time study. Many allow you to choose a specialisation. Study is mostly coursework, with a thesis or major project in the last part of the degree.
Masters by research
A masters by research program is two years full time and can lead to PhD studies. You will produce a thesis with the support of a dedicated research supervisor.
Doctoral program
Completion of a PhD takes between two and four years, during which you conduct original research in your field. A PhD can lead to a research career, in academia or industry.
Deakin University helps me feel career-ready by offering practical, industry-focused education, internship opportunities, career counselling, networking events and access to resources that prepare me for future professions.
Master of Sustainability
Invest in your future
A postgraduate degree is an investment in a better job and a more fulfilling life. Like any investment, it helps to plan your finances and understand all the ways you can reduce your costs.
Scholarships
Scholarships reward your previous academic achievements or your potential to make a positive contribution to the University and your community.
Deakin alumni discount
If you have completed previous study at Deakin, you are eligible to receive a 10% reduction on your fees for any of our postgraduate award courses.
Learn how to apply
Applications are open. Apply to study at Deakin by following our step-by-step instructions.
Entry requirements
Deakin postgraduate degrees have academic, language and visa requirements that you will need to meet. If you don't meet some of the academic or language conditions, we can help you find a pathway into your dream course.
Discover research at Deakin
Our internationally recognised research is focused on the most important global challenges. With top minds, world-class facilities and international networks, we test, refine and develop sought-after innovations that improve the lives of individuals, business and communities.
*Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings 2021
Get help or contact Deakin
Our friendly advisers are available to speak to you one-on-one about your study options, support services for international students and how we can help you study at Deakin in Australia.
Phone: +61 3 9918 9188