Public transport in Australia
The best way to see and do everything in Victoria is via public transport. You can catch a train or bus across Melbourne, Geelong, Warrnambool and other regional areas, or hop on a tram to in the inner-city suburbs of Melbourne.
Trains
With over 200 stations across Melbourne, trains are a fast, convenient and easy mode of transport. Train stations are often located near major attractions and close by other public transport. The V/Line train network can get you to destinations across regional Victoria and run several times a day.
Trams
Melbourne is home to the world’s largest tram system. Trams are like trains, but they stop more frequently and operate along roads in most of the city’s inner suburbs. Trams are a good alternative to trains if you are not travelling far or your destination is not close to a train station.
Buses
You will find bus stops throughout Melbourne, with different routes to take you wherever you need to go. Most bus stops will include timetable information, a list of services that use the stop and a map of the bus routes. The V/Line also offers bus journeys to regional Victoria, but you may need to book your seat in advance.
Travelling to campus
There many ways to travel to Deakin’s four campuses. To help you, we have mapped out the best ways to get there.
Save money on public transport
If you are an international student studying an eligible undergraduate course, you may be eligible to apply for an International Student Travel Pass, saving you money on public transport.
How to pay for public transport
When travelling in and around Melbourne, Geelong and Warrnambool you will need to use a Myki — reusable, prepaid cards used for train, tram and bus travel. Myki cards can be purchased at selected convenience stores or train stations across Victoria. If you are travelling on the Warrnambool local bus network, you will need to purchase a paper ticket on the bus or at the station.
How do I top up my Myki card?
You can top up your Myki credit at convenience stores, train stations or online. Not all tram or bus stops have Myki machines, so make sure you have enough credit before you travel. Android phone users can also download an app to get a mobile Myki.
How do I plan my journey?
The Public Transport Victoria (PTV) mobile app has timetables, network updates and an easy-to-use journey planner. Just add your location and destination detail, and the journey planner will give you the best transport options. You can also link your Myki card to the app and top up your credit on the go.
Get to Deakin, sustainably
Reduce your impact on the planet by walking, cycling or taking public transport to Deakin. Choosing one of these options helps to reduce your emissions and contributes to a sustainable university.
Driving in Australia
Want to explore Australia's attractions by road? If you have a valid driver's licence in your country, you may be eligible to apply for an International Driving Permit to drive in Australia. Everything you need to know about roads, rules and licensing in the Australian state of Victoria is available at VicRoads.
Road safety and regulations
Australia’s roads are safe and well-maintained. However, it is important to follow the road rules for the safety of yourself and others. Make sure to plan your trip, especially to rural and remote areas, because there are often long distances between towns and facilities. Watch out for wildlife on the road and avoid travelling in rural areas at dusk or late at night.
Airport pick-up service
When arriving in Victoria, you will fly into Melbourne Tullamarine Airport, outside the centre of Melbourne, or Avalon Airport, in a regional area near Geelong. Both airports are connected to bus services and taxis, or you can apply for our student airport pick-up service before you arrive. To be eligible, you must be coming to Australia as a Deakin international student for the first time, and your accommodation must be pre-arranged. For more information, please email us.
How can I cancel or change my arrival details?
If you need to cancel or change your booking for your airport pick-up, please contact the provider. You can find their contact details and instructions in your confirmation email.
What should I do if I can't find my driver at the airport?
Please wait for your driver at the Melbourne Airport International Arrival Hall meeting point. Your driver will be holding a sign with the provider’s logo.
Get help or contact Deakin
Our friendly advisers are available to speak to you one-on-one about your study options, support services for international students and how we can help you study at Deakin in Australia.
Phone: +61 3 9918 9188