Deakin University locations and lifestyle
Deakin’s four campuses are located in the state of Victoria, on the south-east of the Australian continent. Known for its rich multiculturalism, beautiful beaches and abundant wildlife, the state is a top choice for students from around the world. Whether you choose to live in on-campus accommodation or in the diverse and welcoming communities nearby, you will have an unforgettable experience.
Melbourne
Melbourne is ranked #5 best cities in the world for students.* It is a vibrant, multicultural city known for its cafes, restaurants, parks, festivals and sporting culture. With so much to see and do, you will never be bored in Melbourne.
Geelong
Geelong is the second-largest city in Victoria. Our students love the mix of beautiful beaches, thriving urban lifestyle and a growing food and entertainment scene. There is something for everyone in Geelong.
Warrnambool
Surrounded by stunning beaches and breathtaking views, Warrnambool’s relaxed coastal lifestyle makes it ideal for someone who wants something unique. The city also offers a thriving culture, arts and music scene.
#1 Victorian university for student support
Coming to Australia to study can be the adventure of a lifetime. At Deakin, we help you with accommodation, orientation, welcome sessions and settling in.
Nisarga's story
Nisarga has made the most of her experience studying in Australia with the support of her family and friends. Now working as a software engineer, she is enjoying Melbourne life.
Living in a multicultural, English-speaking country
Most Australians speak English, so you will be able to communicate easily in daily life once you meet the English language requirements for your degree. Australia is also very multicultural, and in cities like Melbourne and Geelong, you’ll hear many different languages. You may even meet people who speak your native language. If you’d like to improve your English for personal or professional reasons, you can take a course at the Deakin University English Language Institute (DUELI).
Living costs in Australia
Whether you study in Melbourne, Geelong or Warrnambool, you can choose to live on or off campus. Living costs will vary based on the city you are in and the type of accommodation you choose.
Financial support
Deakin is proud to support international students with scholarships and bursaries. Reducing your study costs can relieve mental pressure so you can focus on your success.
Working in Australia
Your student visa allows you to work part time while you study. This means you can financially support yourself and gain valuable work experience.
As an international student, finding a sense of belonging was important to me, and Deakin became a second home in Australia. The inclusive education culture at Deakin made me feel at home and connected with the community.
PhD
Meeting friends at Deakin
There are lots of ways to make friends at Deakin. Living in on-campus residence is an ideal way to meet new people and have access to social events. Joining Deakin University’s Student Association (DUSA) is a great way to make new friends and build a support network of people who share your interests.
Eating food in Australia
Australia, and Melbourne and Geelong in particular, is very multicultural so you won’t have to worry about finding something similar to home. There are restaurants and specialty grocery stores for many cuisines. Our major supermarkets all have well-stocked international sections.
Practising your religion
Australia is home to many religions, with churches, mosques and spiritual centres throughout the country. Deakin’s four campuses have prayer rooms and multifaith chaplains. You don’t need to be religious to talk to a chaplain – they offer advice and guidance to all our students. Chaplains can also help you connect with a nearby place of worship if you wish to become a member of a local faith community.
Want to know more about living in Australia?
If you want to talk to someone about their experience in Australia, book an online chat with a student ambassador. They can tell you what their life is like as they study at Deakin.
Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.
*QS Best Student Cities 2025
Get help or contact Deakin
If you want to know more about studying at Deakin in Australia, our friendly student advisors are here to help.
Phone: +61 3 9918 9188