Support before you arrive
From choosing the right degree and submitting your application, to securing your visa, exploring scholarship options and preparing your journey to Australia – we’ll help you arrive ready to make the most of your studies.
Visa and entry support
Our advisers can support you through each step of the application process. They can help you understand entry requirements, visa processing and prepare you for success.
Help applying to Deakin
Our friendly advisers and authorised agents can help you apply to Deakin. They provide advice on degrees, scholarships and help you apply for your student visa.
Financial support
Deakin is proud to offer a range of scholarships and bursaries to help make studying in Australia more affordable. Scholarships are based on merit, rewarding your prior achievements.
Chat to a Deakin student
Curious what makes Deakin University #1 in Melbourne for student support? Find out from the people who know us best - our students. Book an online chat with a Deakin international student ambassador and ask them about their experiences studying at Deakin.
English language support
If you do not meet the language requirements for your course, the Deakin University English Language Institute (DUELI) offers a variety of programs to help you improve your English. English language support for current students is available as part of Deakin’s academic mentoring program.
Support while you study
Whether you need help tackling a tricky assignment, planning your career or navigating a personal challenge, we’re here for you whenever you need us – so you can feel safe, secure and supported.
Study support
From online resources to 1:1 meetings, our team of experts can help you improve your study skills. They can also provide feedback on assessments before you submit them.
Career planning
We offer career support both during your studies and after you graduate. With access to career coaching, online resources and hands-on workshops, you'll have all the tools for career success.
Student wellbeing
There’s nothing more important than your health and wellbeing. Whenever you need it, you can access doctors, free online counselling, physiotherapy, disability support and much more.
Deakin's support services and approachable staff create a strong sense of comfort. You do not feel like you have to figure everything out on your own.
Master of Public Health
#1 in Melbourne for student support
We have a huge range of services in place to support every aspect of your university experience. From scholarships to career advice, we're here to set you up for a bright future.
Join a thriving student community
Join Deakin University Student Association (DUSA) and feel part of a vibrant, welcoming community from the moment you accept your offer. DUSA is run for students, by students, to help you feel supported in your new home and get the best out of your Deakin experience.
Safety and security
Feel safe and supported on campus with 24/7 security services, dedicated support teams and tools like the SafeZone app – help is always within reach whenever you need it.
Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.
Contact us
Our friendly advisers are available to speak to you one-on-one about your study options, support services for international students and how we can help you study at Deakin in Australia.
Phone: +61 3 9918 9188