Experience a world-class education
Deakin University is the #1 university for graduate employment in Melbourne, Australia. At Deakin University, you will learn from expert academics, gain real industry experience through work placements and develop the skills employers value – giving you the confidence to start your career in Australia or globally.
Live and learn at Deakin University’s vibrant campuses
Study in Melbourne
Melbourne is ranked #5 best cities in the world for students.* It is a vibrant, multicultural city known for its cafes, restaurants, parks, festivals and sporting culture. With so much to see and do, you will never be bored in Melbourne.
Study in Geelong
Geelong is the second-largest city in Victoria and home to two Deakin campuses. Deakin students love the mix of beautiful beaches, thriving urban lifestyle and a growing food and entertainment scene. There is something for everyone in Geelong.
Study in Warrnambool
Surrounded by stunning beaches and breathtaking views, Warrnambool’s relaxed coastal lifestyle makes it ideal for students who want something unique. The city also offers a thriving culture, arts and music scene.
What is it like studying in Australia?
Want to hear about life as an international student in Australia from a Deakin student? Chat with one of our international student ambassadors to get real insights, ask questions and discover what makes studying at Deakin rewarding and enjoyable.
#1 university in Melbourne, Australia for student support
Coming to Australia to study is an adventure of a lifetime. From orientation and welcome sessions to academic support and social activities, we will be with you every step of the way.
Safe, secure and supportive
Australia is known for its safety, inclusivity and high quality of life. At Deakin University, you will benefit from strong support services, multicultural communities and welcoming campuses.
Accommodation options
Living in our on-campus residences is an ideal way to meet new people and have access to social events. Discover more about your accommodation options and how we can support you.
Health and wellbeing support
Deakin University is a safe and friendly environment for all students. Our campuses have 24-hour security, fitness and medical centres and counselling services so you feel safe and supported.
Build friendships and community
Deakin makes it easy for you to connect and feel supported. Joining Deakin University’s Student Association (DUSA) is a great way to make new friends and build a network of people who share your interests.
Practicing your religion
Australia is home to many religions, with churches, mosques and spiritual centres throughout the country. Deakin’s four campuses have prayer rooms and multifaith chaplains.
Nisarga's story
Nisarga has made the most of her experience studying in Australia with the support of her family and friends. Now working as a software engineer, she is enjoying Melbourne life.
Sarbjeet's story
Living in Geelong, Australia has provided Sarbjeet with plenty of opportunities to try new things, explore surrounding areas and make many different friends.
Living in a multicultural, English-speaking country
Most Australians speak English, so you will be able to communicate easily in daily life once you meet the English language requirements for your degree. Australia is also very multicultural, and in cities like Melbourne and Geelong, you will hear many different languages. You may even meet people who speak your native language. If you would like to improve your English for personal or professional reasons, you can take a course at the Deakin University English Language Institute (DUELI).
Living costs in Australia
Whether you study in Melbourne, Geelong or Warrnambool, understanding your living costs and planning a budget will set you up for success. You will need to consider the cost of accommodation, utilities, transport and groceries in Australia.
Learn more about living costs at Study Australia and use their Cost of Living Calculator to get a broad estimate of potential costs.
Financial support
Deakin is proud to support international students with scholarships and bursaries. Reducing your study costs can relieve mental pressure so you can focus on your success.
Working in Australia
Your student visa allows you to work part time while you study. This means you can financially support yourself and gain valuable work experience.
Acommmmodation
If you are renting, you will need to pay for internet, electricity and/or gas services. If you are living on campus with Deakin Residence, your utilities are covered in your weekly fee.
Transport
Transport costs vary depending on where you live. The easiest way to get around Victoria is by public transport. As an international student studying an eligible undergraduate course, you may be eligible to apply for an International Student Travel Pass, saving you money on public transport.
Discover stories about study in Australia
Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.
*QS Best Student Cities 2023
Contact us
Our friendly advisers are available to speak to you one-on-one about your study options, support services for international students and how we can help you study at Deakin in Australia.
Phone: +61 3 9918 9188