Your CoE lets you study in Australia
If you are going to be studying in Australia on a student visa, you will need an accurate CoE at all times.
Your CoE is a copy of the information the Australian Government holds about your study plan (like your course start and end dates).
Talk to Student Central if you are unsure how changes to your enrolment might impact on your visa.
You will get a CoE after you accept your offer
Once you have accepted your offer and we have received your deposit, we will issue you with an electronic CoE. This CoE is valid until five days after your course starts, and you can use it to apply for your student visa.
You will receive your official CoE, which will be valid for the rest of your time at Deakin – as long as your enrolment doesn't change.
The information on your CoE
You will find your course start and end dates listed on your CoE. This is the time in which you will need to complete your degree.
You will also find information on the fees that you have paid and the total fees required for your degree.
Extensions to your CoE
We understand that sometimes students are not able to complete their degree in the time listed on their CoE. That is why we are able to grant extensions.
You might be able to get extra time to complete your course if you have been sick, you have had to deal with a family emergency, or if your academic progress has been unsatisfactory.
For further questions or help, please contact Student Central.
Your CoE can be cancelled
Deakin can cancel your CoE if you are not able to meet your obligations as a student – whether it is completing your course on time or paying your fees.
If you are having troubles with your studies, life as a student or fee payment please contact Student Central.
Staying in Australia after you finish studying
If you would like to spend time working or travelling in Australia after you complete your degree, you may be able to stay here under a different visa.
Get help or contact Deakin
Our friendly advisers are available to speak to you one-on-one about your study options, support services for international students and how we can help you study at Deakin in Australia.
Phone: +61 3 9918 9188