Speak to our international team about your future
If you have questions about which Deakin course is right for you, how to apply or what it is like studying in Australia, our team can help.
Future student adviser
Call our friendly and knowledgeable team of advisers on +61 3 9918 9188. They can answer questions about courses, entry requirements and how to apply.
Deakin authorised agents
Engage with a Deakin authorised agent in your country. Agents provide advice on courses and entry requirements. They liaise with the University on your behalf and guide you through the application process.
Support in your country or region
Deakin has offices and staff around the world to support you before you arrive in Australia. Our team provide up-to-date information about degrees, entry requirements, scholarships and life at Deakin. They can also give career advice and answer your questions about studying at Deakin
#207 university worldwide
#1 in the world for sport science
#13 in the world for education
#14 in the world for nursing
Top 3 business school in Victoria
Award-winning university career service
Find answers about studying at Deakin
Do you want to know more about what life is really like as an international student at Deakin? Start a chat with a Deakin international student ambassador and have your questions answered directly by our students.
Support outside Deakin
The Australian and Victorian Governments both provide support for international students to ensure you succeed.
Study Melbourne
Study Melbourne is a Victorian Government initiative providing support and information to help you settle into your new life in Australia.
Australian Government support
The Australian Government supports international students through the Education Services for Overseas Students Framework (ESOS Framework).
Are you a current Deakin student?
Deakin wants you to have a meaningful learning experience. We offer a complete range of support services, from orientation and welcome sessions to academic support and social activities.
Student Central
Student Central is your starting point for information and access to a wide range of services at Deakin.
Deakin Study Abroad
Discover our study abroad, exchange and specialised overseas programs.
Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.