#207 university worldwide
#1 in the world for sport science
#13 in the world for education
#14 in the world for nursing
Top 3 business school in Victoria
Award-winning university career service
How much will my degree cost?
Tuition fees vary depending on your degree and are similar to other Australian universities. Use our fees estimator tool to see how much your studies will cost. Remember, this is a guide only as tuition fees can change from year to year.
What do my fees pay for?
As an international student, you pay a single fee that covers:
- tuition
- student support services
- student recreation facilities
- DeakinTalent career service
- the Deakin Library.
You will still need to pay for accommodation, either on or off campus, overseas health insurance (Deakin can arrange this or you can organise it your own) and study materials.
Achieve your goals with an international scholarship
Deakin is proud to support international students with scholarships. Scholarships reward academic achievement, and some are also based on your citizenship or chosen degree. Scholarships are awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, so applying early can improve your chances of receiving financial support. Explore some of the key scholarships that could support your studies at Deakin:
Deakin Vice-Chancellor's International Scholarship
Have you achieved an 85% average in your previous studies? You could have all or 50% of your tuition fees paid and be part of an exclusive mentoring program.
Deakin International Scholarship
Are you a high achiever who wants to make a positive contribution to Deakin and its communities? You could have 25% of your tuition fees paid.
Deakin STEM Scholarship
Applying for an undergraduate or postgraduate degree within the Faculty of Science, Engineering and Built Environment? You could have 20% of your tuition fees paid.
Deakin Global Education Scholarship
Are you pursuing an initial teacher education degree? You could have 20% of your tuition fees paid.
Use our find a Scholarship tool to discover other scholarships you might be eligible for.
Australia Awards scholarships
The Australian Government supports high-achieving international students from partner countries to study in Australia. Benefits of the Australia Awards scholarship include tuition and other compulsory fees, return airfare, health cover, an establishment allowance and a basic living allowance.
Scholarships from your home country
Some countries offer scholarships to support their citizens to study internationally. If you are from one of the following countries and want to study at Deakin, please consider applying for a scholarship from home. If your country is not on the list, we recommend checking with your local higher education funding body.
How do I apply for a scholarship?
Most Deakin scholarships do not require a separate application. You will automatically be considered for a scholarship as we assess your application. But they are limited and are awarded on a first come, first served basis so apply early. Full details are available on each scholarship page.
Deakin's commitment to providing scholarships has eased my ﬁnancial burdens, allowing me to focus on my education without additional stress.
Master of Data Science (Professional)
How do I pay tuition fees?
Your Letter of Offer will include details of fees that are due when you accept your offer. This payment is based on full-time enrolment for your degree. The fees may change slightly when you select your units each year.
Payment methods
If you are a new student who applied through an agent, discuss your payment options with your agent. If you applied direct to Deakin, follow the online payment instructions (such as FlyWire or PayPal) in Studylink when you accept your offer.
When we receive your payment, we will issue you an electronic Confirmation of Enrolment (CoE). You can then apply for your student visa.
If you are a current international student, please refer to our fees page.
Need to change your study in Australia plans?
If you aren’t ready to start on your original date, you can defer your enrolment. You don’t need to pay anything until you are ready to accept.
How to get a refund
If you have already paid, we may be able to offer you a partial or full refund if you need to withdraw from a unit or your degree.
Frequently asked questions about fees and costs
Explore accommodation options, expected weekly expenses and opportunities to work while studying. Learn more about living costs.
International students will have to pay course tuition, overseas health coverage and accommodation costs. These can all vary depending on the course and living arrangements.
Yes. Deakin has many scholarships for international students. They can cover all or some of your tuition fees.
Yes. We offer scholarships specifically for students from India, Vietnam and the USA.
We know that some countries, such as Canada, Denmark and Germany, often fund students to study abroad. We recommend investigating international scholarships with local government funding agencies.
Because our researchers are always looking for the best students, most of our PhD project scholarships are open to international students.
Latest articles
Cost of living and studying in Melbourne
Discover how studying at Deakin University in Melbourne lets you balance affordability, lifestyle and career opportunities.
Four steps to managing the cost of study
Worried about study costs? Deakin's four-step guide offers practical tips on budgeting, scholarships and financial support to ease your uni expenses.
Deakin references data from a range of government, higher education and reputable media sources. For more information, visit our University rankings page.
Contact us
Our friendly advisers are available to speak to you one-on-one about your study options, support services for international students and how we can help you study at Deakin in Australia.
Phone: +61 3 9918 9188