Living costs in Australia
Understanding your living costs and planning a budget will set you up for success. You will need to consider the cost of accommodation, utilities, transport and groceries in Australia. Learn more about living costs at Study Australia and use their Cost of Living Calculator to get a broad estimate of potential costs.
Accommodation
If you are renting, you will need to pay for internet, electricity and/or gas services. If you are sharing a rental, you can split these expenses between you and the other tenants. If you are living on campus with Deakin Residence, your utilities are covered in your weekly fee.
Transport
Transport costs vary depending on where you live. The easiest way to get around Victoria is by public transport. As an international student, you may be eligible for a 50% discount on your Myki card.
Opening a bank account in Australia
Australia has a variety of banks to choose from that offer discounts, internet banking and free financial advice for international students. You should set up your bank account as soon you arrive in Australia. You can then withdraw cash from Automatic Teller Machines (ATMs) which can be found in most areas. However, most stores and businesses in Australia accept payments via bank card, so you will rarely need cash.
To open a bank account, you need:
- your Confirmation of Enrolment (CoE)
- passport
- Letter of Offer
- photo identification.
Invest in your study, invest in your future
Make your dream of studying at university in Australia a reality. Learn how university fees work, how to calculate and pay your fees, and discover international scholarship opportunities.
Financial support
As a Deakin student, you will have access to a free financial counselling service provided by Deakin University’s Student Association (DUSA). The service is designed to help you manage your expenses so you can focus on your studies. You may be eligible for financial support to study at Deakin if you are from one of the following countries:
Get help or contact Deakin
Our friendly advisers are available to speak to you one-on-one about your study options, support services for international students and how we can help you study at Deakin in Australia.
Phone: +61 3 9918 9188